In agrosystems, spontaneous species may compete for resources with crops and decrease yields. Chemical management has long been the main control strategy, but the detrimental effects on the environment have prompted exploration of alternative strategies. Apart from herbicide applications, several non-chemical control methods have been used for a relatively long time  Among them, soil tillage is one of the main methods used to control spontaneous vegetation. The effects of this approach on the spontaneous species depend on the tools used, the soil tillage depth and the spontaneous species composition  Successive false seedbed operations promote seed germination and destroy seedlings, hence often decreasing the seedbank in the topsoil  The use of cover crops is another method for controlling the development and composition of the spontaneous species community. There is considerable evidence on the short-and long-term effects of the sown crops and soil tillage on the spontaneous vegetation  The combined use of cover crops with other methods with different mechanisms of action could enhance the control of spontaneous species. For example, tillage followed by sowing cover crops appears to be a promising solution. Some studies have shown that soil tillage is more effective than growing cover crops with regard to weed control under temperate climatic conditions  In banana cropping systems, cover crops can be used during fallows or banana crop cycles to provide services such as enhanced soil fertility or pest control  The main objective of this study was to gain insight into how soil tillage (here, the false seedbed technique) and cover crops impact spontaneous plant communities in fallows preceding banana cropping. We thus monitored spontaneous vegetation growth over 12 months in a fallowed field where a cover crop species (three species tested) was combined with one soil tillage modality (two modalities tested) and calculated the density of the spontaneous plant community, its species richness, diversity and composition. 
 
 The experiment was carried out in a banana plantation in Capesterre-Belle-Eau in Guadeloupe, French West Indies (16°04′ 39.1″ N; 61°36′ 17.3″ W; 285 m a.s.l.), from June 2018 to June 2019. This is the standard duration of a fallow in banana cropping systems in the French West Indies. The chosen field was representative of the agroclimatic conditions and of the crop management techniques of the banana production area in Guadeloupe. Over this 1-year study period, the cumulated precipitation was 4489 mm (annual 10-year mean of 4500 mm), with a mean daily temperature of 24.2 °C (range 21.5-27.5 °C) and a mean solar radiation of 422.30 MJ/m 2 /month. The soil was an andosol (FAO 2014). A 0.9-ha field that had been under fallow since October 2017 was selected for the experiment. The plant community was visually observed to be homogeneously distributed within the field. A split-plot design with five blocks was adopted. The field was divided into ten strips of four sub-plots each. Two factors were applied: the soil tillage modality (applied in strips, two modalities, one strip per modality and per block) (see Fig.  1  and SM1 ) and the sown cover crop species (applied on a sub-plot in strips, four modalities, sown at the same date in all sub-plots). The blocks were separated by 1-m-wide alleys, and each sub-plot was 196 m 2 . In the whole field, the vegetation was cut with a rotary slasher 7 weeks before the cover crops were sown to facilitate soil tillage. In five strips (one per block), the soil was ploughed to 40 cm depth with a spading machine the day before sowing to destroy and bury the current vegetation and improve the soil seedbed for the future crop (modality M1: "without false seedbed") (SM1). In the five other strips (one per block), the soil was tilled four times at different depths and with different tools (modality M2: "with false seedbed") (SM1). Seven weeks before the cover crop was sown, the soil was ploughed to 40 cm depth with a spading machine. Then, the superficial soil layer was fragmented three times to 5 cm depth to eliminate seedlings that had emerged and deplete the soil seedbank (false seedbed technique): (i) 5.5 weeks before sowing with a seedbed cultivator, (ii) 4 weeks before sowing with a power harrow and (iii) the day before sowing with a seedbed cultivator. In late June 2018, three tropical cover crop species were sown, each on a sub-plot per strip: a 50-50 mixture of Brachiaria decumbens  1 . In each strip, a fourth sub-plot was not sown and was used as a spontaneous vegetation control (modality T). M1T was the control without false seedbed, and M2T was the control with false seedbed. The eight treatments were named according to the abbreviations of the two factors. Note that caterpillar attacks on C. spectabilis leaves were observed between the 4th and the 5th months post-sowing without being quantified, and this may have affected plant survival. 
 In each sub-plot, three 25 cm × 25 cm permanent quadrats were installed far from the borders and marked with construction tape on stakes. Each month from July 2018 to June 2019 (dates t1 to t12, with t3 and t6 missing values due to bad weather, thus preventing us from obtaining measurements), the spontaneous species growing in the quadrats were identified and the number of individuals of each species was counted. The number of cover crop individuals was also counted. For each quadrat, at each date, the density of each species (d i for species i) was calculated as the number of individuals of that species per m 2 . The total densities of all species and of spontaneous species (d tot and d spont , respectively) were calculated as the sum of the densities of all species and spontaneous species, respectively. The relative density of each species (p i for species i) was calculated as p i = d i / d tot . The species richness of the spontaneous plant community (S) was calculated as the number of spontaneous species counted in the quadrat. Shannon's diversity index for the spontaneous plant community (H′) was calculated as follows: H′ = -∑ S i¼1 p i log 2 p i , with i being the spontaneous species i The frequency of occurrence of each species (F i for species i) per treatment was also calculated as the number of quadrats of the treatment where a species occurred divided by the total number of sampled quadrats of the treatment  Fig.  1  The two soil tillage modalities tested in a banana field under fallow in Guadeloupe (French West Indies). The false seedbed technique (modality M2: "with false seedbed") was applied with a seedbed cultivator (equipment on the left side), and coarse tillage not followed by the false seedbed technique (modality M1: "without false seedbed") was applied with a rotary spading machine (equipment on the right side). Photograph by Diane Rakotomanga 
 All statistical analyses were performed with R software (version 3.5.3) (R Core Team 2018). The effects of cover crop species and soil tillage modalities on d spont , species richness and Shannon's diversity index were tested at each date with a nested ANOVA with the cover crop species factor nested in the soil tillage modality factor. Tukey post hoc tests were used to assess differences between the treatment means. The effects of the monitoring date on d spont , species richness and Shannon's diversity index were tested, for each treatment, with a one-way ANOVA, followed by a Tukey post hoc test. Beforehand, the effects of blocks and sub-plots were tested with ANOVA (results not presented). They were not significant and thus not included in subsequent models. The relative difference between the densities of spontaneous species observed in a treatment and the one observed in the control treatment M1T (RelDiff d spont ) was calculated as RelDiff d spont ¼ 100 Á d spont trt i ð Þ-d spont M1T ð Þ Â Ã =d spont M1T ð Þ with trt i in {M1B, M2B, M1P, M2P, M1C, M2C}. The relative difference between the species richness observed in a treatment and the one observed in the control treatment M1T (RelDiff S ) was calculated similarly. Lastly, a principal component analysis (PCA) was performed on the densities of the 13 spontaneous species whose maximal frequency of occurrence was over 80% (combined dates and treatments). For each species, the contribution of variables to the first two axes was also assessed. Differences in the PCA axis 1 and 2 scores among treatments were tested by one-way ANOVA, followed by a Tukey HSD post hoc test. 
 
 The spontaneous species community dynamics were contrasted over the 1-year monitoring period, depending on the treatment (Table  2 ). The first 2 months post-sowing the spontaneous plant densities in all treatments decreased significantly. Thereafter, the density of spontaneous species (d spont ) of communities without false seedbed associated with C. spectabilis (M1C) and the control (M1T) varied slightly but not significantly. The d spont of communities with false seedbed associated with C. spectabilis (M2C) and the control (M2T) increased until 7 months post-sowing and then stabilised. Conversely, the d spont of spontaneous species associated with P. phaseoloïdes (P) and the Brachiaria mixture (B) decreased significantly until 4 months post-sowing and then stabilised. The species richness (S) and Shannon's diversity index (H′) presented the same variation pattern as d spont (Table  2 ). 
 The sown cover crop species, soil tillage modality and their interaction affected the species density, richness and diversity (Shannon's diversity index) (Fig.  2, SM2 ). For these three variables, differences between treatments appeared 2 months post-sowing. At this date, the interaction between the sown cover crop species and the soil tillage modality was significant. From 4 months post-sowing the interaction remained significant and the sown cover crop species was always highly significant thereafter. From 2 months post-sowing the densities of spontaneous species (d spont ) associated with P. phaseoloïdes (P) and the Brachiaria mixture (B) were lower than those in the control M1T (about 80% and 75%, respectively, 12 months post-sowing). On the contrary, the densities of spontaneous species (d spont ) with false seedbed associated with C. spectabilis (M2C) and the control (M2T) were higher than those in the control M1T (about 50 and 40%, respectively, 12 months post-sowing) (Fig.  2A ). From 5 months post-sowing the relative difference in d spont with the control M1T (RelDiff d spont ) for treatments associated with P. phaseoloïdes (P) and the Brachiaria mixture (B) was significantly lower than that observed in the other treatments. From 7 months post sowing, RelDiff d spont was significantly lower for spontaneous  species associated with C. spectabilis (C) without false seedbed (M1C) than with false seedbed (M2C). d spont in M2C stayed far higher than that in the control M1T (30 to 50%), while d spont in M1C stayed slightly lower than that in the control M1T. The species richness (S) of spontaneous species generally showed the same trends as d spont , except that differences in S between M2C and M2T compared to the other treatments where more pronounced. Shannon's diversity index (H′) was significantly lower for treatments with Brachiaria sp. (B) and P. phaseoloïdes (P) than that for the treatments with C. spectabilis (C) and the control (T) 7 months and 12 months post-sowing (SM2). 
 The cover crop species and soil tillage modality affected the composition of the monitored communities after 12 months (Figs.  3  and 4 ). All of the identified spontaneous species, along with their name abbreviations, are presented in the Supplementary Material (SM3). The first two PCA axes constructed on the densities of the 13 most frequent spontaneous species explained 41.6% of the total variance. Bidens alba (BA), Ludwigia octovalvis (LO) and Fimbristylis dichotoma (FD) contributed the most to axis 1 (5.64%, 12.75% and 11.65%, respectively). Mikania micrantha (MM), Lindernia crustacea (LC), Kyllinga erecta (KE) and Filicophyta sp. (F) contributed the most to axis 2 (20.25%, 16.15%, 15.52% and 15.30%, respectively). Fimbristylis dichotoma (FD) and Peperomia pellucida (PPe) densities appeared to be closely correlated according to their positions on the ACP (Fig.  3A , close arrows). The same results were obtained for Digitaria ciliaris (DCi), Mecardonia procumbens (MP) and Ludwigia octovalvis (LO) on the one hand, and Filicophyta sp. (F) and Kyllinga erecta (KE) on the other. Two groups of treatments were clearly distinguished on the PCA: treatments with Brachiaria sp. (B) and P. phaseoloïdes (P) on the left side and treatments with C. spectabilis (C) and the control (T) on the right. These two groups were significantly different on both axes (Tukey test performed on the axis 1 and 2 coordinates, Fig.  3C  and D , p < 0.05). Moreover, M2C did not overlap with M1C and M1T on both axes (Fig.  3D ). No species were specifically present in one treatment, but two spontaneous species succeeded in becoming established in every treatment, i.e. Bidens alba (BA) and Mikania micrantha (MM) (Fig.  4 ). Communities associated with P. phaseoloïdes (P) included only a few species (see species richness results). Only the two ubiquitous species Bidens alba (BA) and Mikania micrantha (MM) were found in M1P, while Digitaria ciliaris (DCi) was also found in M2P. Spontaneous plant communities in treatments associated with Brachiaria sp. (B) were slightly richer, with Bidens alba (BA), Mikania micrantha (MM), Digitaria ciliaris (DCi), Fimbristylis dichotoma (FD) and Ludwigia octovalvis (LO) in M1B and the same species as well as Hedyotis lancifolia (HL) and Mecardonia procumbens (MP) in M2B. Several spontaneous species were only present in treatments with C. spectabilis (C) and the control (T). 
 The results of our study were obtained over a 1-year period on a single site. However, considering that during this year there were no extreme climatic events, that rainfall was similar to the 10-year annual mean and that the chosen field and its management were representative of banana crop fields in Guadeloupe, we consider that our results would be transposable to other years and fields with similar characteristics.  
 In this study, we showed that the spontaneous plant communities had contrasted dynamics over 1 year, depending on the sown cover crop species. However, the first 2 months post-sowing, the spontaneous plant densities in all treatments decreased markedly. This could possibly be explained by a high level of insect predation on the seedlings just after emergence  Indeed, Pueraria phaseoloïdes (PPh) is a perennial twining liana with large leaves that climb on other species and stifle them by occupying the space and reducing their access to light. This species appears to be a particularly strong competitor, according to the very low species richness and density of the spontaneous plant community we observed.  Brachiaria decumbens (BD) and Brachiaria ruziziensis (BR) are perennial semi-erect species with a high growth rate and biomass that is invested in expanding the leaf area  4 ) and could explain the low species richness and diversity observed in these communities. However, other species succeeded in growing within Brachiaria decumbens and Brachiaria ruziziensis cover. The liana Mikania micrantha (MM) had likely grown by twinning on the supporting Brachiaria decumbens and Brachiaria ruziziensis plants. The erect species Bidens alba (BA) likely succeeded in growing because of its tall habit, which enabled it to pierce through the Brachiaria cover. Crotalaria spectabilis (CS) is an annual erect plant with a low crown width  
 Our results showed that the soil tillage operations affected the spontaneous species density and the species richness of the  spontaneous plant community only when the Crotalaria spectabilis cover crop had been sown. These results could probably be explained by an effect of soil tillage on the seedbank, which may germinate and grow if the cover crop competition intensity is moderate. Without false seedbed (modality M1), the soil was ploughed with a spading machine at 40 cm depth 1 day before sowing. Therefore, mixed spontaneous species seeds were likely present within the 0-40-cm soil layer, i.e. a depth at which they would be unable to germinate because of their small size. When the false seedbed technique was used (M2), the 5-cm upper soil layer was fragmented three times before sowing at 5 cm depth with a seedbed cultivator and a power harrow. These supplementary soil operations took place after seedling emergence so as to destroy them and prevent further growth, as well as to deplete the spontaneous species soil seedbank (seeds and rhizomes)  4 ). Consequently, we concluded that successive passages of the power harrow and seedbed cultivator were probably responsible for the higher density and richness of spontaneous species we observed with the false seedbed modality (M2) because the soil seedbank depletion by repeated destruction of emerging seedlings did not offset the favourable effects on seed germination and weed dissemination by rhizome fragmentation. Finally, this is the first study to show that, under a tropical climate, sown cover crop species combined with different soil tillage modalities have strong impacts on the species density, richness and diversity of the spontaneous plant community over a 1-year period. 
 In this experimental study, we tested three cover crop species and revealed their contrasted effects. However, a broad range of cover crop species may be used in agrosystems and testing all of them is not possible. Above we discussed that the plant growth habit (erect, semi-erect, liana) and some cover crop morphological characteristics reported in the literature could be a useful basis for discussing the competitive ability of species and the effects of cover crops on the spontaneous plant community composition and density. A trait-based approach, as described in  The analysis of such traits could also help measure the functional diversity of the communities and not only their species diversity. Functional diversity would have the advantage of shedding light on the mechanisms by which cover crops affect the spontaneous plant community  
 We showed that two management strategies (the use of cover crops and soil tillage) could partially control spontaneous species and that combining them could, in some conditions, improve this control. Other strategies like regular vegetation cutting with a rotary slasher could be combined to further enhance control. Some of the spontaneous species observed in this study seemed be very hard to control. In tropical areas, lianas represent a major functional type, which could be responsible for serious economic problems in crop production  Beyond the efficiency of these strategies, the targeted level of control of spontaneous species should be defined, depending on the farmer's objectives and on the nuisance these species generate. Maintaining some diversity in the field could improve the delivery of ecosystem services and the system resilience  
 Here, we showed for the first time that, under a tropical climate, sown cover crop species combined with different soil tillage modalities had substantial impacts on the species density, richness and diversity of the spontaneous plant community over 1 year, during the fallow period in banana cropping systems. This impact differed according to the cover crop and the soil tillage modality, probably related to differences in the competitive ability of the cover crop used and, to a lesser extent, to soil tillage effects on the soil seedbank. A functional approach could be used in further studies to gain further insight into the mechanisms by which plants compete and become established in the field. Ultimately, it could help farmers in their weed control strategies by boosting their understanding of the associated mechanisms. Agron. Sustain. Dev.  (2021) 41:37
Maize monoculture systems cause environmental problems, particularly related to nitrate leaching and herbicide transfer to surface and ground water. These systems are usually based on tillage practices for residue management and seedbed preparation that lead to soil erosion and a decrease in soil organic matter content. In southwerstern France, conventional maize management indeed consists mainly of short (< 2 years) or monoculture conducted with regular mouldboard ploughing and a high mineral nitrogen fertilization (> 200 kg N ha -1 ) and irrigation doses (> 200 mm ha -1 )  Soil tillage is a major source of variability in soil properties in both space and time  In addition to tillage reduction, sowing cover crops (CC) during the fallow period also modifies soil properties, water and mineral nitrogen (N) availabilities at sowing, and may lead to contrasting agronomic performances of the following cash crop. Many studies have highlighted the ability of CC to reduce nitrate leaching significantly due to their ability to capture soil mineral nitrogen (SMN), thus providing i) a service of mitigating nitrate water pollution  When soil tillage is reduced or stopped, agronomic performances are often lower and more variable than those of conventionally tilled fields  Experimental approaches in agronomy now increasingly supplement field experimentation with modelling to analyse system functioning, which provides estimates of fluxes and variables that are difficult to measure and allows for analysis over longer periods. Dynamic soil-crop models are useful tools for predicting effects of agricultural practices on water and N fluxes, such as evaporation, transpiration, drainage and leaching, which are difficult to measure in field experiments (e.g.  In the present study, by combining field experimentation with modelling with STICS, we assessed effects of several species of CC with different sowing and termination dates on agronomic performances of maize monoculture during a 3-year transition period from conventional to no-tillage soil management. More specifically, the objectives were (i) to quantify the biomass production and N uptake of different CC species introduced in maize monoculture; (ii) to evaluate the effects of CC on soil water availability for maize; and (iii) to estimate the effects of CC on maize productivity while evaluating some environmental impacts (especially nitrate leaching and N 2 O emissions) by modelling. 
 
 The experimental field was located at the Lamothe experimental station, INP Purpan, in the alluvial corridor of the Garonne River, southwestern France (43.506 • N, 1.237 • E), on a clay loam soil, classified as Stagnic Luvisol according to IUSS Working Group WRB (2007). The main soil characteristics varied little by depth (Table  1 ). Soil particle size distribution (% by weight) was characterised after removal of the organic matter by H 2 O 2 and decarbonisation by HCl  To estimate plant available water capacity (AWC) of the soil (mm) (Table  1 ), soil water retention curves were determined for each soil horizon (down to 90 cm) from undisturbed soil samples collected with small cylinders (50 cm 3 , 3 replicates per horizon). Water retention was measured consecutively at 0, -16, -33, -100, -330, -1000, -6300, -10,000 and -16,000 cm using pressure plates  1 ) as (θ FCθ WP ) × H, with θ FC the volumetric water content at field capacity (cm 3 /cm 3 ), θ WP the volumetric water content at the permanent wilting point (cm 3 /cm 3 ) and H the horizon thickness (mm). In this study, θ FC and θ WP equalled θ 100 and θ 15 000 , respectively. In this soil, mean ( ± 1 standard error) total plant AWC (0-90 cm deep) was 163 ± 23 mm. The field experiment, started in autumn 2011, followed a completely randomised block design with three replicates. The surface area of an elementary plot was 154 m 2 (24 m × 6.4 m), for a total area of the experiment of 0.5 ha. This experiment was located in a zone with homogenous soil characteristics from 0 to 90 cm deep (Table  1 ). According to the Köppen classification, the climate is an altered oceanic climate, resulting from Atlantic, Mediterranean and continental influences, with high rainfall in spring, hot and dry conditions during summer and early autumn, and mild winters. Meteorological data, including daily air temperature ( • C), rainfall (mm), relative humidity (%), and wind speed (m s -1 ) and direction, were recorded by an automated weather station (SMA100, Campbell Sci., Antony, France) at the experimental site (Fig.  1 ). 
 The experimental field was previously managed with a two-year wheat-sunflower rotation with winter mouldboard ploughing before sunflower sowing. For this study, ploughing was performed at the beginning of the experiment (25 Nov 2011, Fig.  1 ), and subsequent tillage was minimised: no-tillage for maize sowing and shallow tillage (maximum depth of 5 cm) using a disc harrow for CC sowing. Two periods for CC sowing were chosen depending on the CC composition. First, a bispecific Poaceae-Fabaceae mixture of hybrid ryegrass (Lolium ×hybridum Hausskn) (seeding rate: 9 kg.ha -1 ) + crimson clover (Trifolium incarnatum L.) (seeding rate: 12 kg.ha -1 ) (RC) was undersown in maize at the 6-8 leaf-stage using a row-crop cultivator. Additionally, five other CC compositions were tested in this study and sown after maize harvest (in September-October, Fig.  1 ). Three were Brassicaceae sole crops of turnip rape (Brassica rapa L. subsp. oleifera) (seeding rate: 6 kg.ha -1 ) (TR), white mustard (Sinapis alba L.) (seeding rate: 6 kg.ha -1 ) (WhiM), and Ethiopian mustard (Brassica carinata A. Braun) (seeding rate: 6 kg.ha -1 ) (EthM). A Fabaceae sole crop of faba bean (Vicia faba L.) (seeding rate: 180 kg.ha -1 ) (FB) and a bispecific Fabaceae-Poaceae mixture of common vetch (Vicia sativa L.) (seeding rate: 15 kg.ha -1 ) + oat (Avena strigosa L.) (seeding rate: 20 kg. ha -1 ) (VO) were also tested. In each block, a bare soil plot (BS) served as a control, in which maize residues were left on the ground, to evaluate effects of CC. Each year, two dates of CC termination were chosen: i) an "early" termination date (D1) (27 Mar in 2013 and 13 Mar in 2014) and ii) a "late" termination date (D2), corresponding to maize sowing (25 Apr in 2013 and 30 Apr in 2014). CC were chemically terminated with an application of glyphosate (1 kg a.i. ha -1 ) + 2,4-D (840 g a.i. ha -1 ) at either D1 or D2. Low-input maize management was performed to reach a target yield of 12 t ha -1 , which corresponded to the soil-climatic potential of maize in the region. N fertiliser applications were adjusted using the N balancesheet method, which resulted in doses of 120 kg N ha -1 in 2012 and 2013 (40 kg N ha -1 at maize sowing, 80 kg N ha -1 at the 6-8-leaf stage) and 100 kg N ha -1 in 2014 (30 kg N ha -1 at maize sowing, 70 kg N ha -1 at the 6-8-leaf-stage). In addition, irrigation applications were managed using a dynamic water budget to optimise water-use efficiency (WUE) for the control. Irrigation amounts were 200, 115 and 160 mm in 2012, 2013 and 2014, respectively, regardless of the treatment. Furthermore, to allow CC to develop well in autumn, a half-early maize variety (Shexxpir, 1820 GDD from sowing to harvest) was chosen and was sown at 98 000 seeds ha -1 (row spacing: 80 cm). Weeds were controlled during the maize growing season using a pre-emergence herbicide (Smetolachlor, 960 g a.i. ha -1 ) and then a post-emergence herbicide (mesotrione, 150 g a.i. ha -1 ). 
 Soil profiles for SMN analysis were sampled at maize sowing and harvest in 2012, 2013 and 2014 to depth of 90 cm, which corresponded to the maximum rooting depth in this soil. In 2012, field management at maize sowing did not differ among treatments; thus, a pooled soil sample per block was analysed to determine SMN. At maize harvest, samples were collected from the BS, VO_D1, VO_D2, RC_D1 and RC_D2 plots in 2012 and from all plots in 2013 and 2014. For each of five replicates per plot, three soil samples (cores 30 cm long) were collected using a hydraulic core drill. Nitrate and ammonium were extracted with 1 M KCl and measured using a continuous flow auto-analyser (Skylar 51,000, Skalar Analytic, Erkelenz, Germany) in a qualified lab. 
 SWC during the maize growing season was monitored each year of the study. It was monitored in BS, FB_D2, RC_D1, RC_D2 and VO_D1 plots in 2012; the same plots plus VO_D2 in 2013; and all plots except EthM_D1 in 2014. In each plot, two zones of ≈ 1 m 2 were equipped with 6 TDR probes, with two each installed at 15, 45 and 70 cm deep to estimate SWC for the 0-30, 30-60 and 60-90 cm soil horizon, respectively. SWC was measured from maize sowing (except in 2012, when measurements began a few weeks after sowing) to maize harvest. SWC measurements were used to estimate the quantity of water (mm) and plant AWC (mm) per soil horizon at maize sowing and harvest using the retention curves for each horizon. 
 CC above-ground biomass was measured at termination in two 1-m 2 zones per plot of each block. Samples were dried at 80 • C for 48 h to determine CC dry biomass (t ha -1 ). Their C and N contents were measured in triplicate with a CHN elemental analyser to calculate their C:N ratio. Because below-ground biomass of CC was not measured, to estimate the N content of CC roots, root biomass was estimated from experiments conducted at the same experimental site in 2014 and 2015 (see  In each plot, a uniform zone of 10 m 2 (two maize rows 6.25 m long) was harvested to measure maize grain yield, grain moisture and grain N concentration. Grain yields were standardised to 15% moisture content. 
 
 STICS is a soil-plant simulation model that simulates a range of processes related to plant growth, water, and C and N cycles for a variety of annual and perennial crops  
 
 Because the soil of the experimental field was homogeneous (Table  1 ), only one soil type was parameterised in STICS for all treatments and all three years of experimentation. For initialisation, the mean SWC and SMN content of each soil horizon at the beginning of the experiment, corresponding to maize grown in 2012, were used. 
 Because STICS has often been used to simulate maize  
 STICS was used to simulate water, N and C dynamics for each treatment to predict daily fluxes and stocks, which were compared to observed data (i.e. SWC, SMN content, biomass production, grain N concentration). We then predicted daily and cumulative actual evapotranspiration, drainage and nitrate (NO 3 -N) leaching below a depth of 90 cm and N 2 O emissions (expressed in g N 2 O-N ha -1 ) for the selected treatments. 
 As not all treatments were simulated with STICS, we estimated N use efficiency (NUE) simply, using experimentally monitored parameters. The amount of N mineralised from CC residues within 5-6 months for the subsequent maize (N mineralised from CC ) was estimated using the equation of  N mineralised from CC = N acq × N %ava (1) where N acq is the N acquired by the entire plant and N %ava = ( 0.72 × N C × 1000 -26.57 )/ 100, which corresponds to the percentage of N acquired by CC that will be mineralised within 5-6 months after decomposition and available for the subsequent maize. The N supply (N supply , kg ha -1 ) to the maize in each treatment was estimated  N supply = residual soil N + N mineralised from CC + mineral N applied (2) NUE was then calculated as follows: NUE = Grain N content N supply (3) with grain N content in kg ha -1 . NUE thus represented the overall efficiency of the system, since it did not separate soil and plant influences  
 WUE was calculated by considering the amount of grain produced per unit of water used by the crop (in kg dry matter (DM) maize grain ha -1 mm -1 ), and was calculated by dividing the maize DM yield by the amount of water lost by evaporation and transpiration from sowing to harvest. Because evaporation and transpiration were predicted by STICS, WUE was calculated only for the treatments that were simulated. 
 Analysis of variance was conducted using a randomised completeblock design with three replicates for SMN values, CC data (i.e. biomass at termination, C:N ratio, N concentration and N mineralised from CC ) and maize measurements (i.e. grain yield and N concentration, grain N removal, NUE). Means were separated for each year of experimentation using a least significant difference when treatment effects differed significantly. Differences were considered significant at P ≤ 0.05. To describe the quality of STICS predictions, we used three statistical criteria: the coefficient of determination (R 2 ), the root mean square error of prediction (RMSEP) and the Nash-Sutcliffe efficiency coefficient (E), as recommended by  r 2 = ⎡ ⎢ ⎢ ⎣ ∑ N i=1 (S i -S m ) × (O i -O m ) σ S × σ O ⎤ ⎥ ⎥ ⎦ 2 (5) RMSEP = ̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅ ̅ 1 N ∑ N i=1 [S i -O i ] 2 √ √ √ √ (6) E = 1 - ∑ N i=1 (S i -O i ) 2 ∑ N i=1 (O i -O m ) 2 (7) where S i and O i are the simulated and observed values, respectively, S m and O m are the mean of simulated and observed values and N is the number of data points. E ranges from -∞ to 1. E = 1 indicates a perfect fit, while values below 0 indicate a worse fit than the mean of observations. 
 
 Regardless of the year or the treatment, at maize sowing and harvest, SMN remained low (12-64 kg N ha -1 ), with a median of 30 kg N ha -1 . Regardless of the year, SMN did not differ significantly at maize harvest, but it did differ significantly at maize sowing in 2013 and 2014, which revealed the effect of the fallow-period management (Table  2 ). At maize sowing in 2013, SMN ranged from 12 (RC_D1) to 47 (BS and FB_D2) kg N ha -1 ; moreover, soil managed with Brassicaceae (turnip rape, TR_D1; white mustard, WhiM_D1 and Ethiopian mustard, EthM_D1) or mixtures (vetch-oat, VO_D1 and ryegrass-Crimson clover, RC_D1) had lower SMN than bare soil plots (BS) or soil covered with faba bean (FB_D2). At maize sowing in 2014, similar groups as in 2013 were obtained, although differences in SMN were smaller (28-56 kg N ha -1 ). Both years, SMN was highest under BS and FB_D2, and in 2014, under the vetch+oat mixture with a late termination (VO_D2). Despite these differences at maize sowing, SMN did not differ at harvest (Table  2 ), indicating the ability of maize roots to deplete SMN during the crop cycle. Furthermore, regardless of the year, undersown mixtures of ryegrass+crimson clover (RC_D1 and RC_D2) did not influence on SMN at maize harvest. 
 CC biomass at termination varied greatly by year and type of CC, from 0.8 to 10.5 t ha -1 (Table  3 ). Regardless of the CC, mean biomass was higher in 2013 (7.2 t ha -1 ) than in 2014 (3.3 t ha -1 ). For 2013, CC were sown on 21 Sep 2012 (except for ryegrass-Crimson clover RC_D1 and RC_D2, which were undersown in maize), and 17 mm of rain fell the 
 Soil mineral nitrogen (SMN) and filling level of plant available water at maize sowing and harvest in 2012, 2013 and 2014 in the three soil horizons. Treatments -BS: Bare soil, TR: Turnip rape, WhiM: White mustard, EthM: Ethiopian mustard, FB: Faba bean, VO: Common vetch + Oat, RC: Ryegrass + Crimson clover. D1 and D2 are the termination dates of the cover crops: D1 is the "early" termination date (27 Mar in 2013 and 13 Mar in 2014), while D2 is the "late" termination date, which corresponds to maize sowing (25 Apr in 2013 and 30 Apr in 2014). Letters correspond to least significant difference groups, P ≤ 0.05 (NS: not significant). next week, allowing for germination and emergence of seedlings. Cumulative rainfall during the 2012-2013 fallow period was 530 mm for D1 and 577 mm for D2. For 2014, CC were sown later (10 Oct 2013, except for RC_D1 and RC_D2, which were undersown in maize), and only 2.4 mm of rain fell the next week, but the soil was sufficiently wet to allow for good CC emergence. Cumulative rainfall during the 2013-2014 fallow period was 239 mm for D1 and 354 mm for D2; thus, the second year of the experiment was drier. These differences in rainfall after CC sowing in 2012 and 2013 did not influence CCs' time to emergence: 15 and 16 days after sowing in 2012 and 2013, respectively, according to STICS simulations. The difference in biomass production was explained by that in developmental dynamics before winter (data not shown). In 2013, the mean biomass of Brassicaceae CC (turnip rape, TR_D1; white mustard, WhiM_D1 and Ethiopian mustard, EthM_D1) at termination (5.5 t ha -1 ) was significantly lower than that of RC_D2 (10.5 t ha -1 ) (Table  3 ). Mean biomass also differed significantly between early and late termination dates: 7.0 vs. 10.5 t ha -1 for RC_D1 and RC_D2, respectively, and 5.8 vs. 8.8 t ha -1 for vetch-oat VO_D1 and VO_D2, respectively, indicating that CC grew greatly during the short spring period from D1 to D2. STICS simulations of CC biomass in 2013 were adequate, with a good ability to represent the differences observed between VO_D1 and VO_D2. In 2014, 115 mm of rain fell from D1 and D2 (≈ 1.5 months), and the termination date influenced CC biomass significantly, with higher biomass measured for D2: mean biomass of RC and VO was 1.6 and 5.0 times higher for D2 than for D1, respectively (Table  3 ). As in 2013, the biomass of Brassicaceae CC at termination was among the lowest (e.g. < 1 t ha -1 for Ethiopian mustard), which can be explained by an observed high pressure of bio-aggressors, especially flea beetles (Alticini), that year, as well as its difference with the biomass of white mustard simulated by STICS (3.2 t ha -1 ), which does not consider biotic stresses. In 2013 and 2014, the C:N ratio of aboveground CC biomass was lowest for faba bean FB_D2 (11-12) and highest for VO_D1  Differences in CC biomass, C:N ratio and N concentration led to large differences in estimated N mineralised (Table  3 ) (2-104 kg N ha -1 ), which was highest for FB_D2 and lowest for VO_D1 and EthM_D1 for both years. 
 In 2012, SWC monitoring started 3 months after maize sowing (at the beginning of July). Water dynamics did not differ among horizons or treatments, and plant AWC was similar among horizons at maize harvest (Table  2 ; Fig.  2 ), thus demonstrating the homogeneity of the soil in the experiment. In 2013 and 2014, differences in SWC due to fallow-period management were observed at maize sowing and the beginning of the maize growing season (Table  2 , Fig.  2 ). In 2013, due to a rainy period during winter and early spring, the entire soil profile (0-90 cm) was near saturation for BS and early-terminated CC (VO_D1 and RC_D1), as confirmed by pressure heads measured with tensiometers in parallel with TDR measurements (data not shown). For late-terminated CC (faba bean, FB_D2; vetch-oat, VO_D2 and ryegrass-Crimson clover, RC_D2), the topsoil was wet but not saturated, while the deeper horizons were drier. The soil was driest under FB_D2, with only 25-50% of plant AWC in the 60-90 cm horizon (Table  2 ). The 2013-2014 fallow period was drier and received less than half of the rainfall of the previous fallow periods. As in 2013, SWC differed among treatments at maize sowing in 2014 and for a few weeks after, with higher SWC (sometimes near saturation) measured under bare soil (BS), turnip rape (TR) and white mustard (WhiM) (Table  2 ) than those measured under the lateterminated CC (D2), which had a longer cycle. The soil was driest under FB_D2 and VO_D2, in relation to their higher biomass (Table  3 ). Regardless of the year, differences between treatments remained visible only for a few weeks after maize sowing and disappeared after the first rainfall or irrigation. Furthermore, the undersown RC did not influence water dynamics during the maize growing season, which was explained by its low biomass (< 300 kg ha -1 ) while the maize was growing. STICS predicted soil water dynamics of the three soil horizons during maize growing seasons well, with R 2 of 0.74-0.84, RMSEP of 1.2-2.2 mm and E of 0.56-0.82 (Fig.  2 ). The BS treatment was predicted best, although the topsoil (0-30 cm), in which SWC fluctuated the most, was predicted less well than the deeper horizons (in which SWC fluctuated less). We thus hypothesise that STICS predicted soil water dynamics correctly, and consequently that water flux predictions were likely to have been correct and to have represented soil processes realistically. 
 Observed and simulated values of aerial cover crop biomass (t DM ha -1 ), C:N ratio, N concentration at termination (%) and estimated mineralized N from cover crop residues (kg N ha -1 ) (mean ± SE). D1 and D2 are the termination dates of the cover crops: D1 is the "early" termination date (27 Mar in 2013 and 13 Mar in 2014), while D2 is the "late" termination date, which corresponds to maize sowing (25 Apr in 2013 and 30 Apr in 2014). Letters correspond to least significance difference groups for each year. During the 2012-2013 fallow period, abundant rainfall offset the actual evapotranspiration associated with the growth of CC, which ranged from 121 mm (WhiM_D1) to 234 mm (VO_D2), according to STICS simulations (Table  4 ). Finally, except at the end of the CC cycle, when some differences appeared, water dynamics were similar for all treatments this period. Simulated drainage decreased by 9-36 mm year -1 depending on the CC, with the largest decrease under VO, in relation to its higher biomass. After the 2012-2013 fallow period, a preceding effect of a CC was observed for all treatments: simulated drainage always decreased for the following maize, especially after faba bean (11 mm, vs. 100 mm after BS) (Table  4 ), indicating that faba bean had the highest actual evapotranspiration. During the 2013-2014 fallow period, SWC measurements differed more among treatments, especially for late-terminated CC (FB_D2 and VO_D2). The drying effects of the CC were visible in the entire soil profile at maize sowing (Table  2 ) and, although SWC remained high under BS, it was low for late-terminated CC. These differences disappeared after the rainfall and irrigation at the beginning of the maize growing period (Fig.  2 ), before maize transpiration peaked in summer (from flowering, in mid-July, to the end of August). According to STICS simulations, during the 2013-2014 fallow period, no water drained under any treatment, and during the maize 2014 growing season, only 11 mm of water drained under BS, while no water drained under the other treatments (Table  4 ), in agreement with the observed SWC and water budget. Over the three years of the study, introducing CC between maize cash crops decreased drainage by 24-113 mm (i.e. 8-38 mm year -1 ), depending on the CC biomass and termination date. 
 Maize yield, grain N concentration, grain N content and NUE were influenced by the year and fallow-period management (Table  5 ). In 2012, after the last mouldboard ploughing in November 2011 (Fig.  2 ), no difference in mean maize yield (11.6 ± 0.5 t grain ha -1 ), grain N concentration (1.15 ± 0.02%), grain N content (116 ± 2 kg N ha -1 ) or NUE (72.8 ± 3.3%) was observed (Table  5 ; Fig.  3 ), again demonstrating the homogeneity of the soil in the experiment. Moreover, the target yield (of 12 t ha -1 ) was nearly reached, indicating good management of irrigation and N fertilisation. In 2013 and 2014, mean maize yield differed among treatments, being lowest after BS and RC (< 10 t ha -1 ) in both years and highest after EthM_D1 and WhiM_D1 (13.2 and 12.6 t ha -1 , respectively) in 2013 and after FB_D2 and VO_D2 (13.6 and 12.6 t ha -1 , respectively) in 2014 (Table  5 ). STICS usually predicted maize grain yield well. In 2013, STICS underestimated that after WhiM, but the observed yield varied greatly for this treatment (Table  5 ). Grain N concentration did not differ significantly between years, but it was always higher after FB than after Brassicaceae CC (turnip rape, TR; white mustard, WhiM and Ethiopian mustard, EthM). In 2013, these differences did not influence grain N content, but the mean maize NUE was significantly lower after FB (by ≈ 51%) than after the other treatments, illustrating the use of less N fertiliser for maize due to a large amount of N mineralised from FB residues. In contrast, for both years, mean maize WUE was significantly higher after FB (27.6 kg DM grain ha -1 mm -1 ) than after the other treatments (22.6 kg DM grain ha -1 mm -1 ). Regardless of the treatment, STICS simulations indicated that nitrate leaching remained low during the experiment. Nevertheless, introducing CC during the fallow period reduced mean predicted leaching below 90 cm by at least 50% compared to that under BS: 14 vs. 33 kg N ha -1 leached under CC treatments and BS, respectively (Table  4 ). Moreover, predicted cumulative N 2 O emissions ranged from 4.6 to 5.6 kg N 2 O-N ha -1 (i.e. 1.5-1.9 kg N 2 O-N ha -1 year -1 ), with the highest emissions predicted for CC with a Fabaceae species, indicating that N 2 O-N emissions would become in part from decomposition of CC residues. 
 
 Introducing CC between two maize crops is often difficult, as the sowing period can be late and close to winter in south-western France, which often leads to relatively low CC biomass; as a result, the soil in maize monoculture usually remains bare during the fallow period leading to increased erosion in the winter period. One of the main constraints for growing a CC after maize is the availability of water at CC sowing to ensure crop establishment  2 ) promoted growth. CC biomass was high (> 7.6 t DM ha -1 ), which emphasises that covering soils with a well-developed CC between two spring crops is a realistic goal, although some differences between species were observed. Brassicaceae developed fastest in autumn, but their biomass was the lowest among the early-terminated CC; nevertheless, it remained higher than 4 t DM ha -1 . In 2013-2014, temperatures also favoured the growth of CC, but late sowing (mid--October) had a negative impact on CC establishment, and then low rainfall during the fallow period limited their development and biomass production. CC biomass decreased sharply to less than half that of the previous year. Despite these differences in biomass production, CC composition, especially their N concentration, was similar in both years of the experiment. Differences were observed between CC treatments, however, with the lowest C:N ratio measured for FB (11-12), due to N 2 fixation. Brassicaceae C:N ratios were relatively low in our study  Most of the CC tested significantly reduced SMN at maize sowing compared to that under BS, illustrating the well-known nitrate catchcrop effect  In addition, lengthening the growing period of the CC did not decrease SMN further in either the field or STICS simulations. In contrast, under most of the late-terminated CC, SMN contents at maize sowing were higher than those under the early-terminated CC, which usually remained similar to those measured under BS. Despite their lower measured biomass, Brassicaceae reduced SMN significantly. This is explained by their faster increase in root depth and density than those of other species  
 The decision rules applied to this experiment were defined to manage low-input maize. The target maize yield (12 t ha -1 ) was thus defined to be consistent with these rules and with agronomic expertise for this site and region. This target was reached in the first year of the experiment (2012), when the last ploughing was performed before maize sowing, which highlighted the homogeneity of the soil in the experimental field. We thus assume that differences in maize performances observed in 2013 and 2014 were due to interactions between fallow-period management and no-tillage. Maize yield was not correlated with SMN at maize sowing or with the C:N ratio of the CC at termination, indicating that water and N cycles were significantly modified by the introduction of CC and the type of species or mixtures used. Although maize fertilisation in our study (100-120 kg N ha -1 ) was lower than that of farmers in this region (ca. 200 kg N ha -1 ), it may have been high enough to mask some of the CC effect. Previous studies with less N fertilisation showed a positive correlation between SMN at maize sowing after CC and maize yield, as well as a negative correlation between the C:N ratio of the CC and maize yield  
 Observed and simulated maize yield (t ha -1 , 15% moisture content), grain nitrogen (N) concentration (%), grain N content (kg N ha -1 ), N use efficiency (NUE) and water use efficiency (WUE, kg DM grain ha -1 mm -1 ) (mean ± SE) in 2012, 2013 and 2014. Letters correspond to least significant difference groups. D1 and D2 are the termination dates of the cover crops: D1 is the "early" termination date (27 Mar in 2013 and 13 Mar in 2014), while D2 is the "late" termination date, which corresponds to maize sowing  
 No clear relationship between CC biomass and maize yields was observed. In 2013, maize grown after Brassicaceae CC, especially EthM, had the highest yields, but the CC biomass was among the lowest measured this year, in part because Brassicaceae species can lose leaves during the winter that are not included in subsequent sampling. All Brassicaceae CC were terminated early, which could have released more N for the maize during its growing season  4 ). The CC induced variability in maize N uptake explains that in maize yield. This result was obtained regardless of the N content to calculate N uptake, whether shoot N content or estimated shoot+root N content (assuming that roots contain 15% of the N content in shoots). We also believe that the mineralization of CC, calculated in this study from the equation of  3 ). Parameterisation of crop models, such as STICS, to take into account a greater diversity of CC, by integrating mixtures and late destruction dates, could improve this estimate. Furthermore, the field observations over time indicated that Brassicaceae CC yielded seedbeds of good quality. Improving soil structure with their root system (i.e. "biological drilling" or "biological tillage") is one service that CC provide  In parallel, several studies reported negative effects of CC on maize growth and yield due to competition for soil water. For example, maize yield in no-tillage systems was reduced by 33% due to dry soil conditions after CC  
 Our study showed that most of the CC tested maintained maize yield, and the best ones increased it, during the transition period from conventional to no-tillage. Some of them, however, such as the undersown mixture of RC, still need technical improvements to provide satisfactory results, even though their maize yields were similar to that after BS during the fallow period. Although an undersown CC is not supposed to compete with maize, it clearly decreased maize yield more than the other CC studied. It covers the soil surface rapidly after maize harvest, but its biomass remains low until early spring. Among the CC tested, FB provides high and relatively stable yields of the subsequent maize, and it is easy to manage because it can be terminated mechanically instead of chemically. The monitoring and modelling of water dynamics under the different treatments studied shows that managing soil with CC in no-tillage systems could limit the risks of excess water at maize sowing. It also appears that during dry fallow periods, the late-terminated CC led to drier soil conditions than in the case of early-terminated CC, which can have a negative impact on the establishment of maize, especially in rainfed cropping systems. Our results demonstrate that maize grain yield is explained mainly by fallow-period management and effects of CC on N dynamics, which determined the SMN available for maize uptake and thus its yield. However, care must be taken to limit SMN, as FB in our study did not reduce SMN significantly at maize sowing, although STICS simulations indicated a potential decrease in nitrate leaching with FB even though it is a legume. One option is to sow a mixture of FB with other species, especially a Brassicaceae, to increase the diversity of ecosystem services and especially to obtain a good nitrate catch-crop effect. Fig.  4 . Relationship between maize grain yield (t ha -1 ) and shoot and root nitrogen (N) content (kg N ha -1 ) for all treatments and years studied.
Since the end of the Second World War, in the Northern hemisphere, agriculture has undergone a significant intensification faced with demands for increased production. The Green Revolution proposed by William Gaud in 1968 advocates substantial use of inputs, in particular synthetic pesticides  Sustainability is at the heart of the debates about agriculture debate. However, for several decades, and in particular since the Rio de Janeiro Conference in 1992, it has been recognized that the sustainability of ecosystems in general, and agroecosystems in particular, depends on ecosystem health and functioning, of which the driving force is biodiversity (namely plant, animal and microbial communities-the latter represented by fungal, bacterial and viral organisms). That was nearly 30 years ago and we can make identical observations today (see the UN SDGs, about IPBES' bleak assessment in 2019 of biodiversity loss). This is also confirmed by significant recent references  Today, intensive farming has been shown to have reached its limits. In pest management, questions relating to the questions of sustainability have often been raised  Integrated Pest Management (IPM) is the model of crop protection that has prevailed since its creation in the late 1950s. According to the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), "Integrated Pest Management (IPM) means the careful consideration of all available pest control techniques and subsequent integration of appropriate measures that discourage the development of pest populations and keep pesticides and other interventions to levels that are economically justified and reduce or minimize risks to human health and the environment. IPM promotes the growth of a healthy crop with the least possible disruption to agroecosystems and encourages natural pest control mechanisms" (FAO 2020). Initially known as Integrated Control, IPM has, by virtue of its broad principles, contributed to helped improve crop protection around the world. These core principles and guidelines of IPM, as clearly defined back in the 60s (e.g.,  Several problems are highlighted. Indeed, some authors call into question the relevance of IPM in a sustainable agriculture world. These problems include i) modest reductions or increase in quantities of pesticides used, contrary to the aim of the past 70 years; ii) the swarm of definitions and interpretations of IPM, which mean we no longer know what we are referring to when we talk about IPM; iii) the gap that exists between IPM concepts and practices in the field; iv) the frequent lack of ecological sciences, although they have been the focus for several decades. The objective of this article is to propose a general assessment of IPM. Its concrete implementation in the field is too often still based on the systematic and widespread use of synthetic pesticides. To illustrate the gap between the "virtuous" concept of IPM and unsustainable practices  
 
 After the emergence of modern fungicides in the eighteenth century, and herbicides and insecticides in the nineteenth century, research on chemical weapons during the two world wars (in particular on gases) led to the discovery of new organic compounds whose insecticidal properties were then put to use in agriculture. The development of crop protection since the end of the Second World War took place in several stages. Work began in the late 1940s by Californian entomologists, who developed the concept of "supervised control" of crop pests  1 ) and chemical control (Fig.  2 ). This was the time when the general public began to become aware of the harmful effects of pesticides on the environment  In the 1940s and 1950s, the overuse of pesticides, both in terms of treatment frequency and in the doses of active ingredients applied, led to ecological disasters and the impossibility of controlling pest populations due to build-up of pesticide resistance. Such situations have been encountered, for example, in Latin America  In the 1960s, pest management was concerned with managing populations of pests in a crop. In the 1970s, especially in continental Europe, the FAO and the IOBC (International Organization for Biological and integrated Control of noxious animals and plants) promoted Integrated Pest Management. For the FAO,  In the early 1990s, the IOBC and the LEAF (Linking Agriculture and Farming) Group proposed extending the principles and objectives of IPM to integrated production, respectively under the names Integrated Farming  This example illustrates the semantics of the various concepts of IPM, in particular their translation to French and other languages (mostly European and American, the continents where these concepts appeared). In addition to the ambiguity of the term "integrated" (vs. "harmonized," even the notion of economic integration) is the meaning of the term "management" (vs. "control"), and "pest" [vs. bioagressors(s), disease(s)]. For example, IPM has long been translated in French as Lutte Intégrée, an almost literal translation of "Integrated Control," but the term adopted by consensus is now Protection Intégrée des Cultures (Integrated Crop Protection)  
 A lot has been written about IPM, but capturing all the different interpretations is not the purpose of this review. Instead, we refer the reader to the following noteworthy publications or reference works: Abrol 2014;  Over the years, IPM has seen its definitions multiply to the point where  For a three-word concept, there are as many definitions as there are authors and for each definition that emphasizes one particular feature of IPM, another can be found contradicting it  It is therefore pretentious to offer a single definition of IPM. Further to  It is difficult to find characteristics common to all definitions of IPM. However, we offer some of them below. IPM's primary aim is to integrate the different pest management techniques (regular cropping practices along with genetic, physical, biological, and chemical means). It also promotes socio-economic viability and a reduction in use of chemical pesticides, especially after 1962 and the publication of  
 During its 60-year history, clear successes have been achieved in IPM implementation in both Western nations and in the Southern hemisphere, involving concrete reductions in pesticide use, altered farming patterns and wide-ranging socio-economic benefits  Particularly in the Southern hemisphere, millions of smallholder farmers successfully adopted IPM  Participatory training programs such as the UN-endorsed Farmer Field Schools (IPM-FFS) were criticized for their prohibitive cost, needs in personnel requirements and insufficient scalability  More than half a century after its conception, IPM has not been adopted to a satisfactory extent and has largely failed to deliver on its promise  3 ). While certain factors apply across innovations  
 "What farmers don't know can't help them," so wrote the anthropologist Jeffery Bentley when outlining farmers' technical knowledge regarding plant health  FFS experiences also revealed a need for farmers to be sufficiently involved in IPM development, from design up till in-field validation  
 End-users' perceptions are a key obstacle to IPM diffusion, and several IPM constituent technologies are perceived as inflexible, difficult to implement and incompatible with (deeply engrained) farming habits  In both the Northern and Southern hemispheres, a key hurdle is the overall absence (or insufficient farmer awareness) of IPM decision thresholds for particular crops and the convoluted monitoring schemes that are required to assess on-farm pest pressure  
 The adoption of IPM is shaped by extensive lobbying, marketing, and wide-ranging manipulation by the agrochemical industry  The above trends are sustained by schemes that support pesticide subsidies and which create confusion  Though the agrochemical industry is omnipresent in both hemispheres, the rudimentary registration processes in several developing countries have led to high pesticide loads, a continued use of banned and restricted-use substances and a lack of water-tight regulation  
 Despite the decades of committed basic and applied research that have gone into developing and validating its constituent technologies, insufficient implementation of IPM advances have been made for a number of crops in the Southern hemisphere  
 Effectively influencing farmer behavior is difficult  In countries or geopolitical entities where IPM has been made mandatory (e.g., the EU), the operationalization, monitoring, and expectations for immediate conversion limited the effectiveness of IPM-based policies  
 For decades, systems-approaches have been advocated to advance the development and implementation of IPM, while integrated multi-stakeholder, multi-level projects are increasingly seen as vital to attain measurable change at scale  In the Southern hemisphere, government extension agents and crop advisors unaffiliated with the pesticide industry are seen to have low status because of their comparatively limited operational funds  
 
 IPM has often been considered a sphere of integration (de facto by the words that make up its name).  4  presents an ideal situation of integrated protection in an apple orchard. This theoretical range of integration has rarely been tested in the field. In reality, IPM has often been a juxtaposition of different crop protection techniques  The search to coordinate chemical and biological control in the 1950s was the driving force behind Integrated Control, the forerunner to IPM, and the conditions for integration were quickly reviewed (van den Bosch and  5  suggests that one can simply indicate how scientific and public interest in different types of pest management strategies differs widely, with rapidly emerging attention. Examples of this are biological control in the Andes region (particularly Colombia) and eastern Africa, biopesticides in China, Western Europe and India, or agroecology in a number of countries in Africa and Latin America. In addition,  In addition to Fig.  5 , a research on Google Books Ngram Viewer shows the temporal evolution of several terms, including "Integrated Pest Management" and "Agroecology" (Fig.  6 ). There has been a steady decline of IPM in books since the mid-1990s and an increase in Agroecology since the early 2000s. These curves suggest that the application of  agroecology to crop protection (Agroecological Crop Protection, see Section 7) is underway and that a paradigm shift, at least in the books, is taking place. This paradigm shift is probably an abandonment of the pest "enemies/allies" concept, shifting towards a vision based on Sustainable Development Goals (SDG)  It is important to draw attention to the fact that despite the strict guidelines and rules of IPM and the clear need for a hierarchy different technologies, as identified in the late 1960s/early 1970s and described in the IPM pyramid  It has also long been noted that there is no proposed strategy for the implementation of practices in the field. It will have taken more than half a century since the advent of IPM for a sequential logic to be proposed for IPM implementation in the European Union  
 There are calls for sustainable agriculture, whether at a global level or in circular circuits  Farmers are often reluctant to give up agropharmaceuticals because of their ease of use, their proven short-term effectiveness, their cost-effectiveness in most of the production situations, and because they are seen to guarantee fewer production losses. There have been cases where a well-established IPM was abandoned in favor of uncontrolled pesticide use.  The example of the development of IPM in the European Union deserves to be described. IPM is now the cornerstone of crop protection, since European Directive 2009/128/EC made the application of IPM principles mandatory in 2014  However, relevant ways of looking at IPM and experiences that have worked well in the real world should be mentioned. Thus, in order to control pest populations within a delimited area, a variant of IPM, the "area-wide IPM" (AW-PM) has been proposed  
 For over 50 years, the numerous definitions of IPM have given rise to different interpretations, confusion and even abuse. Many appellations have tried to embody the systems observed in the field, depending on the level of chemical pressure or the importance of techniques alternative to chemicals: conventional IPM, bio-intensive IPM, preventive IPM, community IPM, zero IPM, low IPM, high IPM, ultimate IPM, etc. Figure  7  presents, in the form of a word cloud, the thirty most frequently encountered IPM wordings in the literature. This confirms that IPM can be adapted to all contexts and that a qualifier is often required to identify the system being referred to. By way of illustration, IPM is considered compatible both with conventional farming  Alongside the success story of AW-IPM in the examples above,  In the ESR (Efficiency-Substitution-Redesign) approach to move from conventional to sustainable agricultural systems  The fact that IPM is pest-centred inevitably requires additional details in its design when dealing with other trophic groups. For example, in an attempt to optimize simultaneous management of pests and beneficial pollinators,  2009 ) consider IPM to be a "continuum" of practices arising from the confusion created by its many definitions. We begin with "low IPM," equivalent to sustainable chemical control, and "False IPM"  The acronym IPM is indeed so anchored in the minds of scientists, farmers, decision makers, industry workers, trainers, and teachers, that  Differences in perception have generated bottlenecks, which have long been highlighted by  
 
 The lack of integration in the field is also noted in scientific research  This lack of scientific integration has existed for decades and continues today. Most of the recent works on IPM still tend to list and describe tactical solutions separately, in specific contexts  
 The lack of research into IPM can also be seen in the approaches used. In addition to the interdisciplinarity shortcomings mentioned above, it is often reported that IPM research does not often use systemic and participatory approaches  Flaws in the systemic approach to IPM have long been noted  IPM has also suffered from a lack of farmer involvement during research  6 Inadequate consideration of ecology in IPM 
 Research on IPM does not sufficiently take ecological processes in agroecosystems into account and therefore, their resilience to pests  We note that there has been a focus on control methods in IPM rather than on the agroecosystem as the object of IPM  Coll and Wajnberg (2017b) note the lack of ecology in the various definitions of IPM identified by  Over several decades, Stuart Hill has highlighted a lack of ecology in the humanities and social sciences: he has always campaigned to promote social ecology and psycho-economics in IPM  
 Since the start of the millennium, the harmful effects of pesticides on human health have been assessed and have become major concerns  For several decades, authors have called for greater focus on ecology in IPM. Some have proposed an "ecologicallybased IPM"  7 Agroecological Crop Protection (ACP): towards a paradigm shift 
 The basic principles of ACP have different sources, but have ecology as their foundation, as many authors have suggested (see above). The biological and agronomic components of ecology  ACP is a simple concept to define and to understand: it is the application of agroecology to crop protection. Like agroecology  Scientifically, ACP is a concept of crop protection based on cropping systems whose aim is to improve the sustainability of agroecosystems by taking into account their ecological functioning. ACP aims to promote the ecological health of agroecosystems by directly or indirectly optimizing interactions between living (plant, animal, microbial) communities both below and above the ground. ACP is built on two pillars, biodiversity (both aerial and edaphic) and soil health, in order to make agroecosystem less susceptible to biotic stresses. ACP aims to improve the health of agroecosystems by encouraging practices which enhance ecosystem services  The agronomic dimension of ACP is a strategy which is applied in an explicit and orderly way on the ground (Deguine and Ratnadass 2017). Here, absolute priority is given to preventive measures, both space-and time-wise, within a redesigned agroecosystem framework (Ratnadass 2020) including prophylaxis, varietal resistance or tolerance  The third dimension of ACP is its role in agroecological transition towards more robust food systems  There is a large continuum between IPM and ACP. Figures  8  and 9  show via spider graphs differences between the two paradigms, according respectively to the ESR framework  9  illustrates the ability of ACP to address overall agroecosystem performance beyond simple pest regulation, by enhancing multiple ecosystem services through the mobilisation of biodiversity in ecosystem functions. 
 Pioneering experiments took place in cotton cultivation at the small farm level in Africa between 1990 and 2000, when it became impossible to control populations of phloem-feeding insects (in particular the aphid Aphis gossypii and the whitefly Bemisia tabaci), even after heavy insecticide applications. The agroecological approach made it possible to manage aphid populations and eliminated foliar applications of insecticides  The first ACP experiences in intensive farming took place between 2000 and 2010 in Reunion on mango, courgette and chayote crops  Other agroecological pest management experiences have taken place on different crops in mainland or overseas France and in several tropical countries during the last decade  10 , arranged by life history traits of the pests being studied (specificity and dispersal capacity), implementation scales of regulatory processes: from soil to field (and its close vicinity), then up to the landscape scale as well as their contribution to the 4 stages of agroecological transition described by  
 During the transition to ACP, each professional will face difficulties and advantages compared to IPM. For researchers, the first hurdle is to convince stakeholders and partners that ACP is not just another concept with little improvement over IPM (in terms of break with pesticides, for example), nor simply wishful thinking coming to nought in practice because it is based on principles (in particular the substitution of nonrenewable inputs with ecological processes) which have not been proven for all production situations. A second difficulty is predicting the success rate and economic benefits of ACP: it is far more complex than predicting the effectiveness and economic return of pesticides in conventional agriculture. The cost of ACP practices and the economic benefits of the regulating services they provide need to be assessed, and this remains a challenge  Acquiring such tools and skills takes time and a certain capacity to adapt. Conversely, this aforementioned difficulty can be taken by researchers as a highly motivating challenge. For producers, transition to ACP generally leads to a structured and orderly reorganization of their practices as compared to conventional solutions, which are deemed more manageable and less risky, at least in the short term. ACP is seen by many farmers as a "leap into the unknown," especially in the absence of risk insurance. There is also the psychosocial issue and perception that ACP is less "high tech" than other approaches, which can even give the impression of taking a step backwards (vis-à-vis other producers). In addition, using indigenous beneficial organisms can be perceived by the farmer as losing control of cropping system management, even worsened by the fact that the effect of these "invisible" beneficial organisms is not as immediate and observable as using pesticides, or physical measures such as anti-insect nets. An advantage is that producers may see their profession as being upgraded by transitioning to ACP, which translates into the management of complex and diversified systems, the preservation of the environment and the safeguarding of human health, namely a very positive image of their responsibilities, above and beyond their mere role of food producers. Another advantage for researchers is the fact that ACP meets the expectations of society (especially consumers) and current environmental policies (decision-makers and donors). Resources and dedicated facilities are therefore allocated to research (e.g., funds from Ecophyto, the French national action plan for pesticide reduction; calls for projects from certain private foundations). In this context, ACP researchers have a vocation both to inform policy, but also to feed the message carried by extension workers and advisers. Experiences in ACP in recent years make it possible to identify necessary generic conditions and lessons for the design and implementation of future agroecological experiments in different contexts.  11 ), at the right spatio-temporal scales and with revised criteria which take into account the ecological sustainability of agroecosystems; vii) support from public authorities both before and during the agroecological transition period; viii) permanent interactions between the groups involved (from farmer to consumer), in dynamic, robust food systems. In general, the transition to ACP is based on four mutually reinforcing pillars: i) choice and adaptation of practices; ii) integration of knowledge, iii) implementation and evaluation; iv) training and diffusion of knowledge  The development of ACP requires continually advancing operational and actionable knowledge. It is therefore important that the initial basic training is continuously updated through formal training, self-training books, technical journals or online resources, and through regular exchange with other members of the profession: farmers, agricultural advisers, development engineers or researchers  
 Overall, despite 6 decades of good intentions, harsh realities need to be faced for the future: i) the numerous definitions of IPM have resulted in confusion and different interpretations by members of the profession; ii) inconsistencies between the concept of IPM and practices and public policies are widely-recognized; iii) unguided (often prophylactic) chemical control remains the cornerstone of many IPM programs; iv) the use chemical control only as a last resort (as per IPM guidelines) is rarely adopted by farmers; v) IPM research is often inadequate, both in programs and scientific approaches; vi) ecology is not sufficiently taken into account in IPM. Today, IPM has arguably reached its limits (as suggested in Fig.  6 ) and the people who have worked in IPM, including the authors of this review, have completed their mission  12  shows the multifactorial development of the IPM continuum into ACP, highlighting trends in protection, approaches, scales, and levels of action. Compared to pest management concepts that have crossed the last six decades, ACP is based on agroecological principles, taking ecology as its guiding principle. ACP is not pestcentred and seeks to promote agroecosystem health, which is reflected in recent guidelines (FAO 2020). ACP can benefit from relevant strategies such as AW-IPM, which allows a large-scale preventive approach to be complemented with curative tactics at plot level, while involving national or regional organizations and different actors in society  ACP represents a real change of course and requires the redesign of entire farming systems using a "cropping systemoriented" approach (Ratnadass 2020). One can assert that ACP has similarities with the concepts of ecological intensification  The transition from IPM to ACP requires both words and action. The words adopted by ACP illustrate its systemic, multi-scale and participatory approach, as proposed by  Finally, ACP also represents a profound change in scientific approaches, crop protection and its associated measures. Redefined and sustainable research programs and approaches and a broad and systematic phytosanitary strategy in the field are vital to agroecological transition. To ensure a complete transition from IPM to ACP rather than small adjustments, we can use the ESR approach developed by  However, a broader issue is the redesign of socio-technical systems, from field to market, within food systems  In this redesign, crop protection is only one component, and it is subdivided into two stages: i) deconstruction of the pesticide-based pest management plan and ii) introduction of a new management scheme for the agroecosystem, consistent over the entire food system, and focusing on biological, agronomic and social ecology. The objective is the creation of healthy ecosystems and productive, sustainable, fair and resilient agroecosystems  Maître  1  and 2 ). Thanks also to our colleagues Jérémy Bouyer (CIRAD), Eric Justes (CIRAD), and Olivier Dangles (IRD) who kindly reread the manuscript before its submission. In addition, we would like to thank the Managing Editor of Agronomy for Sustainable Development and the four anonymous reviewers for their comments which helped us improve this manuscript. Agron. Sustain. Dev.  (2021) 41:38
The crop's production cycles, which last on average five to six harvests, cause changes to the sugarcane root system over time, as the effects of soil tillage, crop management, mechanized operations and climate can affect its development, ultimately resulting in crop yield changes  The use of farming implements in soil tillage for sugarcane production alters the soil structure, increasing compaction  In general, the larger the root system of a plant, the greater its ability to exploit the soil. However, the number of roots is not the determining factor of good production, but rather its distribution over the soil profile during its cycle  Root growth depends on the crop variety, the physical, chemical and biological parameters of soil quality and the crop management system  With this, it is clear that the root system is of paramount importance for sugarcane, but there are scant studies analyzing its root system during the cycles and which can help us understand its behavior over time, as it is directly affected by the amount of water in its different phenological phases  Information on sugarcane root development over more than one crop cycle and under conservation management systems is poorly known and scarce in the literature due to difficulties of assessment and the high number of assessment steps. Given this context, the authors decided to innovate in evaluating the evolution of the root system, using various treatments to verify the effect of soil tillage systems and cover crops on the sugarcane root system over time. This study hypothesized that conservation tillage systems combined with the use of cover crops allow greater sugarcane root development over three crop cycles, compared to the conventional tillage system with no cover crops. To test this hypothesis, the objective of this study was to evaluate the development of the root system of sugarcane planted under different soil tillage systems and using cover crops during three cycles. 
 
 The experiment was carried out in the field at the Santa Fé mill, located at 21 • 46 ′ S and 48 • 33 ′ W, altitude 490 m, in the municipality of  The soil was classified as Argissolo Vermelho distrófico típico according to the Brazilian Soil Classification System () and as Ultisol Udult Typic Hapludults according to the Soil Taxonomy System  1  shows the physical and chemical attributes of the soil obtained at the end of the cane plant cycle, when the root system samples were initially collected, for characterization. The chemical attributes were determined according to  
 The experiment was implemented in 2015 as plots subdivided into rows with three repetitions. In the experimental plots, measuring 10 m wide by 30 m long, 6 sugarcane rows were planted parallel to the length of the plot with 1.5 m inter-row centers. The soil tillage systems were combined with cover crops. The cover crops used were: i) SHsunn hemp (Crotalaria juncea) IAC KR1 variety; ii) MI -millet (Pennisetum glaucum L.) BRS 1501 variety; iii) PE -peanut (Arachis hypogaea L.) Runner IAC 886 variety; iv) SO -sorghum (Sorghum bicolor L.) BD 7607 variety. The soil tillage systems used were: i) MT -minimum tillage with subsoiling at 0.4 m; ii) MT/DS -minimum tillage with deep subsoiling at 0.7 m; iii) NT -no-tillage, i.e., no soil tillage was done before planting the sugarcane. An additional control system was implemented, consisting of conventional tillage (CT) for sugarcane areas, i.e., with no cover crops and conventional tillage using two light harrowings. 
 Before the implementation of the experiment, the study area had been cultivated with pasture for 11 years, and, in December 2014, there was a process of land-use change to sugarcane. The chronological order of events in the study area is shown in Fig.  1 . In the process of changing from pasture to sugarcane, 2.0 Mg ha -1 of dolomitic limestone (85 % of PRNT) were applied, incorporated with a plowing grid up to 0.4 m deep, followed by a leveling grid at 0.2 m deep. The establishment of the experiment started in December 2014 with the characterization of the area and the elimination of pasture. Subsequently, in the same month, the cover crops were planted. Sunn hemp (25 kg ha -1 of seeds) and sorghum (10 kg ha -1 of seeds) were sown in rows using a nine-row no-till seeder, and peanut (110 kg ha -1 of seeds) was sown using a four-row seeder. The seeders were pulled by a Valtra BM 125i tractor (98 kW of power and mass of 7.92 Mg). Millet (18 kg ha -1 of seeds) was sown using a manual furrow due to the small size of the seed. In March 2015, when the cover crops reached maximum flowering (the period with highest phytomass accumulation), sampling was performed for analysis of dry biomass (DB) in an area of 2.0 m 2 in each plot. Subsequently, the biomass was dried in an oven at 65 • C for 72 h, resulting in 11 Mg ha -1 , 10 Mg ha -1 , 5 Mg ha -1, and 21 Mg ha -1 for sunn hemp, millet, peanut, and sorghum, respectively. After sampling, the sunn hemp, millet and sorghum crops were desiccated by applying 200 L ha -1 of syrup composed of 6.0 L ha -1 of a commercial product based on the active ingredient (ai) glyphosate +70 mL ha -1 carfentrazone-ethyl (commercial product based on the ai) + 1.0 L ha -1 of mineral oil, followed by mechanical management using a knife roller. The peanut crop was harvested using a Massey Ferguson 7140 tractor (104 kW of power and mass of 7.70 Mg) and a Double Master harvester. The sugarcane crop (CTC4 variety) was planted on April 17, 2015, using a DMB chopped sugarcane planter pulled by a John Deere tractor. Fertilization consisted of 300 kg ha -1 of N-P-K (10-51-00). In the plots without cover crops (CC), soil tillage was done with two light harrowings using a Baldan 36-disc hydraulic harrow and a Case MXM 200 hp tractor. In addition, the MT and MT/DS systems were implemented using an Ast-Matic 550 5-shank subsoiler, reaching depths of 0.4 m and 0.7 m, respectively. Mechanized sugarcane harvesting was carried out in May 2016 (2015/2016 crop year, cane plant production cycle), in May 2017 (2016/2017 crop year, first ratoon cane production cycle) and in September 2018 (2017/2018 crop year, second ratoon cane production cycle), using a John Deere 3520 harvester with track chains. The mechanized operations carried out in each treatment and traffic intensity are shown in Fig.  2 . During the execution of the experiment, rainfall and average temperature were monitored using a DRIA-0111 automatic surface weather station installed in the area. Sugarcane yields for the 15/16, 16/17 and 17/18 cycles are shown in Table  2 . 
 The root system was assessed every three months using the methodology described by  3 ). The assessments were performed from the first cane plant harvesting, occurring at the following times:   The roots were washed in running water and sieved with a 2.0-mm mesh to eliminate soil, according to  RDB = [(RD A × (W A /W T ) + RD B × (W B /W T ) + RD C × (W C /W T )] × 10,000 m 2 × D (1) in which RDB = root dry biomass (kg ha -1 ); RD A , RD B and RD C = root density (g dm -3 ) at the sampling sites A, B and C, respectively (equation 2); W A , W B and W C = width of strips (m) at the A, B and C sampling sites, respectively; W T = width of inter-row centers (1.5 m); D = depth of soil layer (m). RD A , RD B and RD C = RDM/V (2) in which RDM = root dry mass (g); V = volume of sample (V =0.475 dm -3 ). 
 The statistics were performed using R Studio statistical software (1.1.463, R Foundation for Statistical Computing), by analysis of variance (ANOVA) using the F-test at 5 % significance level by factor analysis with additional treatment, and later using analysis by strip to compare the treatments, in which Tukey's test was applied at the 5 % probability level.  C in February 2017. One notes that the cane plant cycle (0-395 DAP) had the largest water surplus in the hydric balance, while the second ratoon cane cycle (766-1200 DAP) showed the largest deficits. These values are in accordance with the annual rainfall of the area, where over the years there has been a decrease in rainfall (Fig.  4 ). 
 
 Fig.  5  features the root dry biomass (RDB) values of sugarcane for the different treatments at a depth of 0.0-0.6 m over the agricultural years assessed. In the soil tillage systems, significant differences were only found between cover crops at 395 DAP when using minimum tillage (MT) and at 665 DAP when using minimum tillage with deep subsoiling (MT/DS). RDB was significantly higher in MT using millet (MI) and sorghum (SO) as cover crops at 395 DAP, with 1399 and 1334 kg ha -1 , respectively (Fig.  5 ). Peanut (PE) with the same tillage system resulted in the lowest sugarcane RDB, with 644 kg ha -1 , 54 % lower when compared to MI. Also, in this tillage system, the largest root growth occurred at 755 DAP, when ratoon cane was first harvested. In the MT/DS system, the highest sugarcane RDB was obtained when using MI as a cover plant, showing significant differences at 665 DAP with a production of 2792 kg ha -1 (Fig.  5 ). In the same tillage system with the other cover crops, SH, PE and SO accounted for RDB of 2,003, 1,953, and 1337 kg ha -1 , respectively. To expand the understanding of the effects of soil management systems and cover crops on the development of the sugarcane root system, RDB was analyzed for each tillage system and cover crop in each soil layer (Table  3 ). In general, higher RDB was obtained in the 0.0-0.2 m surface layer, reducing with depth. However, some treatments showed a slight increase in RDB with depth, as verified in CT at 395 and 485 DAP, where there was an increase in the 0.   3 ). Significant differences in RDB were only found in the 0.2-0.4 m and 0.4-0.6 m layers (Table  3 ). The 0.2-0.4 m layer showed significant RDB differences in the samplings at 395, 665 and 1025 DAP; however, in the 0.4-0.6 m layer, significant differences were found in the samplings at 395, 575, 665, 755, 845, and 1025 DAP. One notes, therefore, that most differences occurred in the deeper soil layers. In the 0.0-0.2 m layer there were no significant differences between treatments and the highest RDB amounts occurred in this same layer, while in the subsurface layers, the greater the differences between treatments. It is noteworthy that CT values in all layers were lower than in most of the other tillage systems, regardless of the cycle. At 395 DAP, in the 0.0-0.2 m layer, the highest RDB was obtained using SO + MT and MT/DS, MI + MT, and peanut + NT, while the lowest RDB was found in PE + MT and MI + NT and MT/DS (Table  3 ). In the 0.2-0.4 m layer, the highest RDB was found in PE + NT, SO + NT, SH + MT, and SO + MT, and the lowest RDB was obtained in CT. In the 0.4-0.6 m layer, only millet showed significant differences in RDB, being higher in association with MT, followed by MT/DS and NT. In the third sampling (575 DAP), millet + MT/DS and sorghum + MT presented the highest RDB values (466.0 and 416.2 kg ha -1 , respectively) in the 0.4-0.6 m layer (Table  3 ). An opposite behavior was observed for SO + NT and MT, with the lowest RDB values (74.9 and 145.9 kg ha -1 ) in the same soil layer. In the fourth sampling (665 DAP), management with SH + NT and MT/DS, PE + NT, and SO + NT showed the largest root dry biomass values in the 0.0-0.2 m layer. The lowest RDB values were obtained for SO + MT/DS, CT, SH + MT, and MI + NT. In the same soil layer and assessment time, RDB in NT was superior to the other tillage systems in association with peanut, sunn hemp, and sorghum, but in the deeper layer (0.4-0.6 m) showed an opposite behavior, presenting the lowest RDB with all cover crops. Despite having the lowest RDB values in the first layer, peanut + MT and millet + MT showed the higher biomass in the 0.2-0.4 m and 0.4-0.6 m layers, and with MT/DS millet also had the highest RDB in these layers (Table  3 ). At first ratoon cane harvesting (755 DAP), in the 0.4-0.6 m layer, peanut + MT and NT showed the highest RDB among all tillage systems and cover crops. In the same layer, at 845 DAP the highest RDB was observed for MI + MT. In the eighth sampling (1025 DAP), SH + MT and NT and SO + MT/DS showed the highest RDB in the 0.0-0.2 m layer. In the last assessment, performed at 1200 DAP, no significant differences in RDB were found among the management systems; however, CT in the 0.0-0.2 m and 0.2-0.4 m layers showed the highest RDB values, 982.5 and 752.5 kg ha -1 , respectively (Table  3 ). Over the time evaluated, the management systems of sunn hemp + NT and MT and millet + MT/DS accumulated higher sugarcane RDB in the surface layer of 0.0-0.2 m, with mean values of 905.2, 870.2 and 879.2 kg ha -1 , respectively, accounting for 54 %, 51 % and 47 % of the roots present in the total depth evaluated (calculated from Table  3 ). In the 0.2-0.4 m layer, millet + MT and MT/DS presented the highest mean RDB with 709.2 kg ha -1 (38 %) and 635.5 kg ha -1 (34 %), respectively. However, in the 0.4-0.6 m layer, the highest mean RDB values were obtained in peanut + NT and MT and millet + MT/DS with 363.4, 359.8 and 359.4 kg ha -1 accounting for 20.5 %, 21.4 % and 19.2 % of the number of roots in the depth of 0.0-0.6 m. When evaluating the mean among cover crops, in the 0.0-0.20 m layer, sunn hemp obtained the highest RDB values, while peanut and CT had the lowest, but the situation is reversed when evaluating the 0.2-0.4 and 0.4-0.6 m layers, where sunn hemp and CT had the lowest means, unlike peanut and millet, which obtained the highest. This effect was also observed by evaluating the mean among soil tillage systems, where NT obtained the highest RDB values for the 0.0-0.2 m layer, but in the other layers obtained the lowest values over the cycles. Inversely, MT proved to be the tillage system with the highest means in the deeper layers. CT had means below the other tillage systems in most of the evaluated periods. Sugarcane root density (RD) in the total soil depth (0.0-0.6 m) showed an upward trend in the first ratoon cane cycle, that is, between 395 and 755 DAP (cane plant harvesting and first ratoon cane harvesting, respectively) (Fig.  6 ). The highest RD values were obtained in the MT system (1.08 g dm -3 ) at 775 DAP and in MT/DS, NT and CT systems (1.07, 1.03, and 1.03 g dm -3 , respectively) at 755 DAP (first ratoon cane harvesting). However, the greatest increase in RD in this period was observed in CT, from 0.41 g dm -3 (the lowest RD obtained at 395 DAP) to 1.03 g dm -3 , an increase of 0.62 g dm -3 , equivalent to 151 %. In the second ratoon cane cycle (755-1200 DAP), RD showed a reduction at 845 DAP in all tillage systems, dropping to 0.82, 0.81, 0.80 and 0.62 g dm -3 in MT/DS, MT, NT and CT, respectively, a reduction of 23 %, 25 %, 22 % and 40 % (Fig.  6 ). The highest RD was obtained at 935 DAP in NT, MT, and MT/DS. However, in CT it obtained at 1200 DAP (second ratoon cane harvesting), is also the largest RD among all soil tillage systems. RD was concentrated in the surface layer (0.0-0.2 m), reducing with increasing depth and showing mean values between 1.38 g dm -3 in peanut + MT and 1.79 g dm -3 in sunn hemp + NT (Fig.  6 ). CT showed low RD in this soil layer, with a value of 1.42 g dm -3 , the same obtained in sunn hemp + MT/DS, not increasing with depth and maintaining the low RD behavior in the two remaining soil layers, resulting in a totaldepth in mean RD of 0.77 and 0.74 dm -3 for these management systems. In all soil tillage systems, root volume (RV, Fig.  7A ), root surface area (RA, Fig.  7B ) and total root length (TRL, Fig.  8 ) showed the lowest values at cane plant harvesting (394 DAP), first ratoon cane harvesting (845 DAP) and second ratoon cane harvesting (1200 DAP), but, no significant differences were found between treatments. In the first ratoon cane cycle, the behavior of those attributes followed the behavior obtained for RD (Fig.  6 ), with an increase in RV, RA, and TRL as RD increased over time. However, in the second ratoon cane cycle, the highest RV, RA, and TRL values were obtained at 935 DAP, followed by a reduction of these attributes up to second ratoon cane harvesting (1200 DAP). The behavior of the root system attributes over time for CT is noteworthy: contrary to what was observed for RD, there was a reduction in RV, RA, and TRL as RD increased. It is noteworthy that for none of the evaluated attributes there were significant differences in the assessments. Regarding root length in diameter classes (RL 0.5 , RL 0.5-2.0 , and RL 2.0 ), a predominance of thin (dr <0.5 mm) and medium (0.5 mm ≤ dr ≤ 2.0 mm) roots was observed in all tillage systems (Fig.  8 ). During the entire assessment period, MT showed between 47 % and 52 % of the length corresponding to thin roots, between 43 % and 48 % to medium roots, and between 3 % and 6 % too thick roots. The MT/DS system showed root length between 48 % and 53 % corresponding to fine roots, between 43 % and 47 % to medium roots, and between 3 % and 6 % too thick roots. The NT system showed between 48 % and 52 % of total length in the thin roots class, between 44 % and 46 % in the medium roots class, and between 4 % and 6 % in the thick roots class. CT showed a total length between 48 % and 53 % corresponding to fine roots, between 43 % and 50 % to medium roots, and between 3 % and 7 % too thick roots (Fig.  8 ). 
 Sugarcane root dry biomass (RDB) over three crop cycles in the 0.0-0.2 m, 0.2-0.4 m and 0.4-0.6 m layers under different soil tillage systems and cover crops. Lower case letters compare cover crops for the same tillage system and uppercase letters compare tillage systems for the same cover plant. Means followed by the same letter do not differ statistically from each other by Tukey's test (p < 0.05). Numbers in italics represent the percentage of RDB in each layer in relation to the total in the depth of 0.0-0.6 m. 
 
 The behavior of the sugarcane root system over time was hardly influenced by cover crops since significant differences in RDB were only found at 395 DAP in MT and 665 DAP in MT/DS. Those periods relate to the cane plant cycle and the first ratoon cane cycle, respectively. This indicates that the effects of cover crops on the sugarcane root system may not last over time, adding that as the crop cycles progress, sugarcane harvesting operations generate heavy machinery traffic, significantly increasing soil compaction.  In general, sugarcane showed the lowest root dry biomass and root density at the time of cane plant harvesting (395 DAP) and ninety days after that harvesting (485 DAP), presenting in that period the least variation of such attributes over time. Subsequently, RDB increased progressively until reaching the maximum value at first ratoon cane harvesting (755 DAP), followed by a significant drop over ninety days after such harvesting (845 DAP), leading also to a reduction in root density, volume, surface area and length.  4 ), decreased over the cycles and RDB (Fig.  5 ) responded with a reduction in root growth between the first and second ratoon cane cycles. Between 575 and 755 DAP, there was an increase in RDB, while this behavior did not occur during the second ratoon cane cycle, in which the amount of RDB was close to linear. This confirms that the root system depends on the amount of rainfall and hydric balance in the area, corroborating the findings of  Among the soil tillage systems evaluated (Fig.  5 ), NT showed the least differences among cover crops, with a behavior that was closer to CT. In turn, in the conservation systems with more soil revolving, mainly MT and MT/DS, there were greater differences among treatments. This might result from the "age hardening effect"  However, in addition to the assessment between cycles, it is important to know the amounts of root in the evaluated layers, not just the total sum, as obtained in Fig.  5 . Therefore, the authors evaluated the differences by treatments and layers, in a more detailed view of the effects of tillage systems and cover crops. It is noteworthy that significant differences occurred only in the 0.2-0.4 m and 0.4-0.6 m layers, that is, the deeper ones. This shows  that in the sandy layer of the soil (Table  1 ), where root growth penetrates more easily, there were no impediments to growth, and all treatments achieved similar growth. In turn, in the more clayey layer (0.3-0.6 m), due to greater depth and textural change, in treatments that generate more sensitive root systems, there is greater difficulty to penetrate, and thus greater differences in the root system occur. Also, the greatest amount of significant differences occurred in the 0.4-0.6 m layer, that is, the treatments that favored expressive root growth in this layer possibly stood out in relation to the others, leading to the conclusion that the 0.4-0.6 m layer is the main factor behind differences between treatments. Added to this, it is observed that in both layers the differences occur at 665 and 1025 DAP, which are the samplings before the first and second ratoon cane harvest, respectively. In other words, at the moment of the cycle when there is greater root growth, enables the observation of treatments that obtained the greatest development. The treatments using peanut + MT and NT and millet + MT and MT/DS stand out in both layers as the largest production in dry biomass in the sampling at 665 DAP, while peanut, millet, and sorghum + MT/DS stand out for the sampling at 1025 DAP. In the long term, there are already studies proving the benefits of NT such as preserving straw in the soil  Studying the characteristics of the sugarcane root system under different tillage systems, after first harvesting (1.5 years),  Conventional tillage without the use of cover crops causes greater soil revolving in the surface layer, and also resulted in less machinery traffic on the soil due to the smaller number of tire passages in the interrow centers (Fig.  2 ). Conversely, minimum tillage and minimum tillage with deep subsoiling combined with the peanut cover crop had the most intense traffic during the implementation of the experiment, a fact that may have influenced the lower RDB content in the peanut + MT management system in the first sampling carried out at 395 DAP and the low root concentrations in the first two soil layers, resulting from compaction caused by machinery traffic. Soil compaction is considered by authors such as  The low sugarcane RDB values in the peanut + MT management system may also be explained by the peanut harvesting process, which involves great soil disturbance, requiring mechanized pull-out of the plants during harvesting. This involves the use of a device called diggershaker which digs into the soil at a depth of approximately 0.05 m below the pods, uprooting the plants and organizing the pods on the soil surface for sun drying. A subsequent harvesting stage consists of collecting and separating the plants with a device called pick-beater, which separates the pods from the plant  Through root distribution, it was found that the highest root concentration occurs in the surface layers of the soil, regardless of the management system used. In general, sugarcane root biomass was more concentrated in the surface layer of 0.0-0.2 m over time, with values between 35 % and 62 % of RDB. In the first crop cycle, at 395 DAP, RDB concentration with depth was 48 %, 33 %, and 19 % for the 0.0-0.2 m, 0.2-0.4 m and 0.4-0.6 m layers, respectively, results similar to those obtained by  Distribution of the root system with depth and its interaction with the environment has a direct impact on some factors such as drought tolerance, germination and/or sprouting capacity, plant size, tolerance to machinery traffic, efficiency in absorbing soil nutrients, among others  Another factor that facilitates the concentration of the root system in surface layers is the use of green manure, which is related to the C/N ratio, in the case of legumes, and also to biological nitrogen fixation and its relationship with the mycorrhizae existing in the soil, benefiting the root system  Therefore, greater root concentration in the surface layers of the soil is noted, especially the 0.0-0.2 m layer, as expected due to soil texture and crop behavior. It is noteworthy that the layer which most benefited from soil tillage or cover crops was 0.4-0.6 m, since, being the most clayey layer, it was the most difficult to penetrate and, consequently, the most challenging for the root system. This study found that the use of the MT and MT/DS systems showed a greater capacity for penetration in those layers, mainly associated with millet and sunn hemp. 
 In all management systems and assessed periods, was found the prevalence of thin (dr<0.5 mm) and medium (0.5 < dr < 2.0 mm) roots, a relevant fact for the proper physiological functioning of the crop, since roots with diameters below 2.0 mm are important for the absorption (thin roots) and transport (medium roots) of water and nutrients  Analyzing the root system and yield of sugarcane ratoons under different amounts of straw,  It should be noted that root density (RD) in conservation management systems differed from conventional tillage in seven of the nine assessments carried out over time. Up to 935 DAP, RD was greater in minimum tillage, minimum tillage with deep subsoiling and no-tillage; however, at 1025 and 1200 DAP, conventional tillage presented greater RD. Nevertheless, some authors point out that high energy expenditure for the maintenance of the root system may have negative consequences for the crop, such as reduced yield  One of the advantages of assessment during the sugarcane cycle is the possibility of finding the behavior over the cycle, which may not be constant, as shown in Fig.  7 . In this study, one notes that during the first ratoon cane cycle (16/17) there was a constant increase in root volume and surface area, while for the second ratoon cane cycle (17/18), there was a reduction after harvesting (845 DAP) followed by an increase (935 DAP), as in the previous cycle, but followed by a constant reduction after 935 DAP. This behavior is due to the increase in rainfall (Fig.  4 ) that occurred during the third cycle, especially between November and March, much higher than in the previous cycle. Therefore, due to the water surplus, the crop did not feel the need to expend energy with deep root growth. This effect is known as "luxury consumption"  1 ), causing a reduction in root volume and surface area (Fig.  4 ). Therefore, one of the distinctive aspects of this study was the possibility of perceiving these small details that go undetected in situations of more spaced out samplings. Also, it is noteworthy that as rainfall is homogenous in the area, there were no differences among the treatments due to the amount of water received. 
 From the data presented, it was possible to notice that the treatments had significant effects at the depths of 0.2-0.6 m, where differences were found, especially in the deepest layer (0.4-0.6 m). Also, the greatest differences occurred before sugarcane harvesting (665 and 1025 DAP) for both layers (0.2-0.4 m and 0.4-0.6 m). However, despite the differences in root attributes, the same did not occur for yield (Table  2 ), as there were no statistical differences in any of the evaluated cycles. This effect was expected because, following the first ratoon cane cycle, the effects of tillage systems and cover crops are minimized, thereby reducing the differences. This effect was also found by  These results agree with those of  As a result, the authors suggest that further studies should be carried out evaluating the root system at various times of the year, allowing a more in-depth evaluation of the effects of the weather and management systems. That way they will be able to improve the root system, physical soil attributes and yield without compromising their yield and profit, thus ensuring environmental sustainability, which is a common goal, without renouncing financial sustainability, which is the main focus of producers. 
 The tillage systems and cover crops influenced the root development of sugarcane The highest concentration of root dry biomass was obtained in the 0.0-0.2 m surface layer, containing between 36 % and 62 % of roots present in the first 0, 6 m deep. However, the significant differences between the soil tillage and cover crops occur in the clayey layer of the soil (0.30-0.6 m), where the management effects affected the root system. Few differences in sugarcane root development were obtained among cover crops within each tillage system. Differences in the dry biomass of the roots were obtained in the minimum and minimum tillage with deep subsoiling, only at the time of harvesting the first crop cycle (cane plant, 395 days after planting) and in the second cycle, 665 days after planting, respectively. The highest sugarcane root density was obtained at 655 days after planting in no-tillage and 755 days after planting in minimum tillage, minimum tillage with deep subsoiling, and conventional tillage, indicating that the highest concentration of roots occurs at the time of first ratoon cane harvesting. Soil & Tillage Research 208 (2021) 104866
Cover crops, also called catch crops or green manure, are one of the pillars of agroecological practices and are essential for diversifying cropping systems  As cover crops increase evapotranspiration during the fallow period compared to bare soil  The magnitude of these processes depends on the soil, climate and cover crop management, such as choice of species, dates of sowing and termination, and residue management  Some showed that cover crops without late termination could decrease nitrate leaching effectively, as well as the risk of decreasing drainage and yield for the succeeding crop  Thus, cover crop management is crucial to avoid or limit the cover crop's potential negative influence on the succeeding crop. Management practices should be adapted locally to a site, its soil and climate characteristics, and the succession of cash crops, which determine the degree of potential pre-emptive competition. Crop models can be a valuable tool to assess the influence of cover crops on water and N balances under Fig.  1 . Monthly mean difference between rainfall (R) and potential evapotranspiration (PET) from 1990 to 2017 for each site in the study area. N.  
 
 The study area was located in the Adour-Garonne catchment, in south-western France (Fig.  1 ). This area of France has a temperate climate, with several climate types according to the definitions of  
 The simulation approach consisted of using the STICS soil-crop model  We tested four cover crop sowing dates (August 5, August 20, September 5 and September 20), combined with four cover crop termination dates from late autumn to early spring (November 15, December 15, March 15 and April 15) (Table  1 ). At termination, we simulated two cover crop residue-management practices: ploughed or left as mulch on the soil surface. Finally, we simulated two cash crops sown on April 16: irrigated maize, with automatic irrigation triggered by the STICS model if a water satisfaction index fell below 85%, and sunflower grown under rainfed conditions (without irrigation). Mineral N inputs for the cash crops were determined from surveys of cropping practices in the Adour-Garonne catchment. N fertilisation was 185 kg N ha -1 divided into two applications for maize and 50 kg N ha -1 two weeks after sowing for sunflower. The simulations were conducted over 1990-2017 to represent the actual climate variability of each site. For each cash crop, year and site, we ran 129 "species × sowing date × termination date × residue management" scenarios. 
 The five sites covered a wide range of climate variability in the Adour-Garonne catchment for arable farming areas outside of mountain areas. We used the climate in the SAFRAN climate grid cell  1 ). Soil texture differed among the five sites, ranging from sandy to silty clay according to the texture triangle  2 ). For the five sites, we set soil organic N content in the upper 0.25 m of soil at 9 g N kg -1 and asset soil depth to 0.9 m to compare sites more easily, especially their water drainage. N 43 • 29 ′ N 43 • 56 ′ N 43 • 30 ′ N 43 • 42 ′ N Longitude 0 • 55 ′ W 0 • 19 ′ W 0 • 37 ′ E 1 • 29 ′ E 2 • 12 ′ E Rainfall (mm. 
 
 The STICS soil-crop model is a dynamic process-based model that runs on a daily time step. It simulates crop growth and water, carbon and N balances under the influence of weather, soil and crop management practices. STICS simulates cropping systems over time, from a crop cycle to a long-term succession, including the management of fallow periods between cash crops. Soil water is modelled using a "tipping-bucket" approach. Water demand uses a crop-coefficient approach, while N demand is based on the N dilution curve, which is generic and robust  
 Soil water and mineral N were initialised in STICS in the same way for all five sites. To initialise the SWC of each soil layer, we simulated a wheat crop preceding the sowing of the cover crop. Thus, water initialisation differed for each climate year, which depended on the weather of the previous year. We initialised the SNC of the soil profile with a low SNC of 18 kg ha -1 , homogeneously distributed over the soil profile. This value corresponds to that after a well-managed wheat crop, for which the uptake of N by a cover crop is more likely to influence the succeeding crop. 
 Soil-crop models produce many output variables. The selected STICS outputs we focused on were: (1) cover crop biomass at termination; (2) cumulative water drainage, evapotranspiration and nitrate leaching during the fallow period and the crop succession; (3) SWC and SNC at cash crop sowing and (4) irrigation volume simulated by the STICS model according to the maize water requirement, water (WSI) and N (NSI) stress, and yields of the succeeding cash crop. For SWC, we analysed it over the whole profile and in the seedbed (upper 0.1 m of soil). We calculated differences and ratios of the outputs of interest between the cover crop management (i.e. each species, sowing and termination dates, and residue management) and bare soil per site and year. We analysed the influence of the factors site, cover crop species, sowing date, termination date, and residue management on the outputs of interest using analysis of variance (ANOVA) within the R software ( After testing the normality and homogeneity of the variances in the simulated outputs, we used the ANOVA to determine the percentage of variance explained by each factor and their interactions, as all factors were significant due to the large number of simulations. We ranked the factors in descending order of explanation of variance for each output of interest. We also calculated correlations between changes in water and N stress due to differences in cover crops and yields for maize and sunflower compared to bare soil. 
 
 As expected, predicted drainage varied greatly among sites and was related to contrasting levels of rainfall and soil available water capacity. Drainage during cash crop growth represented a mean of 15-30% or 25-35% of the total drainage of the crop succession for the rainfed or irrigated crop, respectively (Table  3 ). Even with a low SNC at initialisation, nitrate leaching varied greatly among sites as drainage varied. Evapotranspiration during the cash crop period represented 40% or 30% of total evapotranspiration over the crop succession when the cash crop was dry or irrigated, respectively. SWC on April 15, just before spring crop sowing, depended on climate and soil available water capacity. For all five sites, SWC represented a mean of 91-95% of total available water capacity. SWC in the seedbed was ca. 80% of the SWC at field capacity, but varied among sites due to differences in spring rainfall. Sites with high drainage, such as LAL and RDL, had lower SNC on April 15 than the other sites. Maize grain yield ranged from 7.6 to 13.3 Mg ha -1 among sites, while sunflower yield ranged from 0.4 to 3.7 Mg ha -1 , which agrees with the ranges of yields measured under farming conditions. For maize, thanks to automatic irrigation, mean water stress stays above 0.84 for the minimal value (Table  3 ), a stress level that does not induce significant yield loss. However, the water volumes varied greatly among sites, from 130 to 307 mm in average. Conversely, moderate to strong water stress was predicted for sunflower, and the intensity varied greatly depending among sites and years. Little N stress was predicted during the vegetative phase of maize, but it was higher during its reproductive phase and during both phases for sunflower. 
 Cover crop biomass varied greatly among species, and sowing and termination dates (Fig.  2 ). The two factors that explained the most variance in biomass were cover crop species and termination date (16% each) (Table  4 ). Species, termination date and their interaction explained 39% of the variance. The later the cover crop was terminated, the more biomass it produced. White mustard grows rapidly, but it had the lowest biomass (0-2.6 Mg.ha -1 ). It grew little during winter and spring, which is consistent with its genetic characteristics. The biomass of the bispecific mixture and ryegrass ranged from 0 to 6.5 and 0 to 4.3 Mg.ha -1 , respectively. These two types grew strongly in winter and spring, with their biomass doubling from December 15 to March 15, and often doubling again from March 15 to April 15. Conversely, vetch biomass had high heterogeneity in growth, with biomass ranging from 0 (no emergence due to drought) to 6.9 Mg.ha -1 . Sowing date was the third factor that explained the variance of cover crop biomass at termination (48% variance explained by the three factors and their interactions). Later sowing decreased biomass; for example, the biomass of cover crops sown on September 20 instead of August 5 was 67-75% lower. Site was the last factor that explained a large percentage of the variance: species, termination and sowing dates, site and their 
 Main results for soil water and nitrogen content and main crop balances of the control scenario with bare soil for the 5 sites: RDL, LAL, LEC, AUZ and PEY. For each site, the minimum, mean and maximum of each variable during the fallow period, during crop succession and for the cash crop is shown. The nitrogen stress index (NSI) and water stress index (WSI) range from 0 to 1; the lower the index, the greater the stress. According to bibliography, we can consider that maize yield is affected when stress level are below 0.85 for nitrogen and 0.80 for water while they are 0.80 and 0.60 for sunflower  
 
 Cover crops increased evapotranspiration by a mean of 15-60 mm during the fallow period due to plant transpiration, depending on the cover crop management practice. Termination date, residue management, species, sowing date, site and their interactions explained only 31% of the variance in evapotranspiration difference. The most influential explanatory factor was termination date (7%): the later a cover crop was terminated, the greater the difference in evapotranspiration with bare soil (Table  3 ), highlighting the greater water consumption due to cover crop growth. Residue management also explained approximately the same level of variance in evapotranspiration well, with a lower increase in evapotranspiration because mulch decreased evaporation. When cover crops were terminated on November 15, evapotranspiration of the two residue-management practices differed by ca. 30 mm, but this difference decreased with later termination dates (Fig.  S1 ). Cover crop species was the third most influential factor that explained the variance, 4% alone and 26% combined with the previous ones. For example, white mustard, with relatively low biomass, increased evapotranspiration less than vetch or ryegrass, which grew for a longer period. The spring regrowth of ryegrass and the bispecific mixture increased evapotranspiration strongly. Site and sowing date explained the variance only slightly. Cover crops decreased water drainage by a mean of 5-40 mm, mainly during the fallow period, depending on the site. This decrease depended mainly on the sowing and termination dates, which explained 13% and 7% of the total variance, respectively. For all treatments at each site, earlier sowing and later termination decreased water drainage due to the increase in the duration of the cover crop growing season (Fig.  S2 ). The site explained 5% of the variance, while species explained only 2%: a slightly larger decrease in drainage was predicted for the bispecific mixture and Italian ryegrass. Sowing and termination dates, site, species and their interactions explained 38% of the variance in drainage compared to bare soil in the fallow period. Cover crops decreased nitrate leaching mainly during the fallow period, but the decrease varied greatly depending on the soil and climate of the site. Site alone explained 65% of the variance in the decrease. Sites with the highest nitrate leaching under bare soil conditions (LAL and RDL) had the largest decrease in nitrate leaching: 15-45 kg N.ha -1 per year. The other sites, with lower nitrate leaching with bare soil, had a smaller decrease: ca. 10 kg N.ha -1 at AUZ, and 5 kg N.ha -1 or less at LEC and PEY (Fig.  S3 ). Thus, the three factors that explained the most variance were, in descending order, sowing date, species and termination date but with very little variance explained (4%, 1% and 1% respectively). As expected, the later the sowing date and the earlier the termination date, the less nitrate leaching decreased. For species, the bispecific mixture and ryegrass had a larger green manure effect than vetch. Site, sowing and termination dates, species and their interactions explained 77% of the variance during the fallow period. 
 Under most conditions, cover crops modified the SNC of the entire 0.9 m profile on April 15, depending mainly on the site that explained 30% of the variance (Table  4 ). The difference with bare soil ranged from -40 to -5 kg N.ha -1 for the three driest sites, usually -20 to -5 kg N. ha -1 for LAL (+5 kg N.ha -1 in some cases), and -10 to +5 kg N.ha -1 for RDL, the rainiest site (Fig.  S4 ). Termination date explained 16% of the variance, with later dates resulting in lower SNC than that after bare soil. The decrease was 2-3 times as large for the April than for the November termination. Species explained 13% of the variance; legumes and the Cover crops decreased the SWC of the entire 0.9 m profile on April 15 by a mean of 0-30 mm. Termination date explained most of the variance but not much with only 13%, and later termination resulted in a greater decrease. SWC decreased for the April termination date for all sites, and for the March termination date for the three driest sites (AUZ, LEC and PEY). Explained variance increased to 38% when adding site and species as well. Decreases in SWC were due mainly to sowing ryegrass or the bispecific mixture. White mustard and vetch had little influence on SWC on April 15. The site effect highlighted differences in spring rainfall between wet and dry sites. For wet sites, even for late termination of ryegrass or the bispecific mixture, SWC decreased less than 5 mm, while for drier sites, SWC decreased by 15-40 mm (Fig.  S5 ). Introducing cover crops into cropping systems during the fallow period influenced SWC little in the seedbed on April 15, as it depended mainly on rainfall during the previous days. For all sites, leaving cover crop residues on the soil surface increased it slightly, by a mean of 0-2% (Fig.  S6 ). The increase was higher as termination date increased, except for the last date, for which water consumption by the cover crop could decrease SWC in the seedbed. Residue management, termination date, species, site, sowing date and their interactions explained only 23% of the variance (Table  3 ). 
 
 The difference in N uptake by the succeeding cash crop compared to bare soil depended on the cover crop species and termination date (Fig.  3 ). Generally, the later the termination date, the lower was the predicted N uptake. The effect also depended on the cover crop species, vetch, the only legume, leading to higher N uptake than after bare soil in most cases. The three others tend to decreases N uptake, particularly when terminated late. Compared to bare soil, mustard decreased N uptake of the two cash crops by less than 10 kg.ha -1 . For ryegrass and the bispecific mixture, the decrease depended on the termination date: less than 10, ca. 25 and 40 kg.ha -1 for early (November-December), March and April termination, respectively. After vetch, maize took up ca. 15 kg N.ha -1 , regardless of the termination date. Conversely, after sunflower the difference with bare soil ranged from +5 kg/ha to -10 kg/ha. 
 The maize yield ranged from -35% to +15%, and in most cases decreased by up to 20%. The decrease in yield was due mainly to an increase in the N stress index during the vegetative phase of maize (Fig.  4a ). As expected, due to automatic irrigation, maize experienced little or no water stress during the vegetative and reproductive phases whatever the fallow period management (Table  3  & Fig.  4ab ). However, most simulations did not result in an increase in irrigation volume, which agrees with the small influence of cover crops on SWC. The few cases in which irrigation volume increased (to 30 mm) occurred after terminating ryegrass and the bispecific mixture on April 15. This phenomenon occurred at dry sites in the few years that had a severe drought in spring. Water and N stress occurred mainly after ryegrass or the bispecific mixture, while yield increased mainly after vetch. The correlation between a decrease in yield and increase in N stress was high with R 2 equal to 0.88 and 0.83 for the vegetative and reproductive phase, respectively, while no correlation was predicted between decreased yield and water stress. 
 The change in sunflower yield ranged from -40 to +20%, with a mean decrease of 10% for all types of cover crop species and management practices (Fig.  5 ). During the vegetative phase, N stress increased slightly but water stress increased greatly in spring with April termination of ryegrass and the bispecific mixture in dry years, especially in 
 Explained  Sunflower yield increased mainly after vetch and, to a lesser extent, the bispecific mixture, as for maize. Correlations between the decrease in yield and increase in N stress were significant, with R 2 equal 0.52 and 0.51 for the vegetative and reproductive phase, respectively. Like for maize, and despite the absence of irrigation, there was little or no correlation between a decrease in yield and changes in water stress due to cover crops (R 2 ≈ 0.00 and 0.27 in the vegetative and reproductive phase, respectively). 
 
 The simulations indicate that cover crops decreased nitrate leaching effectively during the fallow period compared to bare soil and were less effective with legume than with non-legume species, as experiments and other simulation studies have shown  Termination date also influenced the production of cover crop biomass, which also depended on the species. In a dry autumn, late sowing of vetch can limit its growth strongly. Species with rapid growth in summer and a short crop cycle, such as white mustard, stop growing in late autumn/early winter, when they reach senescence  
 Termination dates are crucial for determining the influence of cover crops on the amount of water available in the soil profile for the succeeding crop. Several studies highlighted the risk of lower SWC at sowing of the succeeding cash crop  
 Cover crops have a well-documented influence on succeeding crop yields. Increased maize yields have been reported, particularly with legume cover crops such as vetch  Sowing a legume cover crop increases the yield of the succeeding cash crop as it avoids N stress due to pre-emptive competition  Combining legumes and non-legumes could be an interesting compromise as this type of mixture has performed well for the management of mineral N, to significantly decrease leaching and increase the green manure  
 Using STICS, we assumed that physical soil properties, such as bulk density and soil infiltration capacity, remained constant throughout the crop succession, with or without cover crops. However, on bare soil, a crust can form on the soil surface that decreases water infiltration. Sowing cover crops during the fallow period changes the physical properties of the soil and increases the proportion of water that infiltrates  Nevertheless, changes in soil structure due to changes in pore distribution and size can increase the reservoir size over the long term.  The present study highlighted the influence of termination date on evapotranspiration, water drainage and soil water and mineral N availability for the succeeding cash crop, confirming the results obtained by  Considering other locations, these results are valid in similar climate conditions with temperate climate and dry summers. We simulated a range of sites with contrasted annual precipitation and potential evapotranspiration and a large range of cover crops species and management. It gave some trends on the potential impact of cover crops on several water and N components depending on termination date, presence of legumes or strong regrowth at spring for temperate climate such as in Europe or USA. Since we also gave the interaction between the different factors among which is the site, one can extrapolate the results more easily, particularly if the site does not influence the results. They should however be careful in to different conditions and run the scenario again within the new pedoclimatic context. In climate change context, cover crops are an interesting tool to overcome some crucial issues by reducing efficiently nitrate leaching avoiding indirect N 2 O emissions in aquifers. Some studies have shown that this efficiency remains in climate change context as well  
 Our study highlights relevant interactions between soil, climate, choice of cover crop species and its management, including sowing and termination dates and residue management after termination. Cover crops decrease nitrate leaching effectively but also decrease drainage by increasing evapotranspiration during the fallow period and crop succession in the climate conditions of the Adour-Garonne catchment. The extent of this influence depends on the amount of biomass cover crop produces, indicating that adapted management could control the negative effects. In areas with low drainage in winter and little rainfall in spring, late spring termination of a cover crop could result in high water and mineral N pre-emption before sowing of the succeeding cash crop, thus decreasing its yield, mainly via N stress. Well-managed cover crops could limit or preclude water and N stress for the succeeding cash crop and its yield (i.e. late termination should be avoided in dry climates). Sowing legume cover crops is clearly beneficial for yield due to the green manure effect. However, their use must be adapted to the risk of nitrate leaching to be mitigated in areas with high water drainage. Bispecific mixtures could be a useful compromise to limit nitrate leaching and promote green manure effects. Nevertheless, they should be adapted to decrease their influence on the water balance by adapting the date of termination, particularly in dry climates, where quantitative water management is an issue and can worsen with climate change. Finally, cover crop management should be optimised locally depending on the ecosystem services and issues targeted, and this could be done via decision-making tools using a soil-crop model. 
 N Meyer ran the simulations, analyze the first results and write a first draft of the paper. All authors contributed to design the numerical experiment, analyze the results and write the paper in its final version.
Agriculture worldwide needs to change profoundly and quickly to address unprecedented challenges such as climate change adaptation/mitigation, natural resource conservation, and food provision for a rapidly increasing population  Agroecology is recognised as a promising model for transforming agricultural and food systems by addressing the problems facing agriculture in a systemic and integrated way  The agroecological transition being at the top of the agenda of public agricultural research organisations and donors  Over the last few decades, scientific research in agroecology has focused on systems of increasing scale and size, from simple cropping techniques (e.g. pruning and organic fertilisation) to more complex objects such as cropping systems  The broadening of the agroecological perspective has also gone hand in hand with an increasing recognition of the role of non-scientific actors in problem assessment and codesign of sustainable solutions  Hence, for the researchers engaged in the design of agroecological systems, the challenge is particularly high since they should embrace multiple scales, disciplines, and actors in their work. For this reason, the design of complex, multiscaled agroecological systems cannot be achieved overnight. It often involves a long process of exploration in which the system under design can evolve and move from one scale to another (Le  Past researches on design have developed theories, methods and tools in order to understand and improve design processes. The main theoretical framework, called the C-K theory, is focused on the rationale and reasoning that appear in design  In this article, we wish to introduce a new analytical framework which highlights the systemic mechanisms involved in objects' transformations along agroecological design processes. This analytical framework may help answer the three following questions: (1) How, during design processes, do agroecological systems transform and cross from one organisational scale to another, and what the drivers of these transformations are? (2) What is the specific role played by researchers from various disciplines and non-scientific actors in the scale transformation of design objects? (3) What is the role played by object transformation in the agroecological design process? This framework was tested through an in-depth analysis of design processes in three contrasting case studies in tropical horticulture contexts (Fig.  1 ). These design processes were conducted by the co-authors of this paper, a multidisciplinary research team (the HortSys research unit) from CIRAD (French agricultural research and international cooperation organisation), over a period of two decades (from the 2000s to today). In the following parts of the paper, we begin by introducing our analytical framework of agroecological design processes (Section 2.1 below) and a data collection method (Section 2.2). We then present our three case studies (Section 3). In the discussion section, we build on our empirical cases and existing literature to discuss and deepen our analytical framework (Section 4.1). We eventually discuss the implication of our study for the methods and tools used by researchers to organize design processes (Section 4.4). The paper concludes with proposals for improving design approaches (Section 5).   
 
 The design theory called C-K theory models the special logic that allows a "new object" to appear. It highlights how previous definitions of objects are revised and new ones can appear, threatening the consistency of past knowledge  2 ). 
 According to the literature, agroecological design processes involve at least four components, which interact extensively: -The design object is a novelty currently in the process of being designed by researchers with the participation of actors  or a concept (Le  
 The objects under design can be located at various levels of organisation  -Material artefacts: At the first level, the design objects are various kinds of self-standing artefacts which do not (or do not yet) belong to any agricultural system. Examples would be a new piece of equipment, plant cultivar or animal breed, a specific input or a new bioactive component. As a concrete example, "attract and kill" fruit fly traps have been developed to control populations of fruit flies which are pests of major economic importance  Cropping techniques usually put artefacts to practical use. -Cropping systems: The object designed can also be a cropping system, defined as a coherent set of cropping techniques organised in space and time to achieve a given goal (e.g. achieving a target yield, stimulating an ecological process or enhancing the cropping system's agronomic, economic, and environmental performance). For instance,  Research at landscape scale also includes the co-design of collective strategies to improve natural resource management  
 Based on the literature, we consider that objects can be affected by three types of transformation (Fig.  2 ): -Horizontal transformation happens when the organisational scale remains unchanged while no radical changes are brought to the object under design. The majority of design studies report cases of horizontal transformation (e.g.  Along an agroecological design process, the design object may transform under the influence of the three other components above mentioned (researchers, actors, and problem situation). In turn, scale transformations of the design object may drive changes in the way actors, researchers, and problem situations act and interact. 
 In tropical areas, horticultural systems are at the forefront of agroecological transition challenges: they are expected to contribute to the food security of a growing population while shifting to greener production models  As a research team specialising in the design of horticultural systems in the tropics, we documented design processes we conducted in three contrasting climatic and socioeconomic situations in the tropics. All three design processes were aimed at reducing the use of agrochemicals in horticultural systems. We chose to focus only on design processes led by researchers, although we know there are situations where the design process is led by farmers. Our three case studies concern the co-design of (1) fruit fly biocontrol strategies based on the conservation and domestication of weaver ants in West African mango orchards, (2) vegetable cropping systems using insect nets to decrease the use of agrochemicals in Benin, Kenya, Tanzania and Côte d'Ivoire, (3) cropping systems deployed across space and time with organisational innovations at water catchment scale in order to reduce water pollution by pesticides in Martinique (French West Indies). The three design processes are based on contrasting innovations: (i) the use of a living organism-the weaver ant-in the first case, (ii) the introduction of an external artefact-the net-in the second case, and (iii) a social innovation-a new cooperation between actors-in the third case. The case studies have all been documented by scientific publications in peer-review journals. These case studies were chosen based on the following criteria: (i) the organisational scale of the design object should have transformed significantly during the design process; (ii) the design process should have lasted at least 20 years; (iii) the design process should have been led by researchers from the same scientific team; (iv) non-scientific actors should have participated in the design process; (v) the design process should be documented by scientific publications in peer-review journals. 
 Since the co-authors of this paper took part in these design processes, the present article was constructed using a reflexive approach. The empirical material was gathered through a series of 3 workshops with the researchers involved in each case study and complemented by a literature review covering a period of two decades . During workshops, the lead researchers of each design process were asked to describe the design process freely, with other participants asking questions to clarify grey areas. Supplementary data were collected after the workshops, through individual interviews conducted by the lead author of this article with the lead researcher of each design process. Data collection and analysis were guided by the analytical framework described in Section 2.1 above. We asked the following questions: 1. What were the nature and organisational levels of the design object (gene, plant, animal, cropping system, farm, etc.)? 2. How did the design object transform over time, and what were the reasons for these transformations? 3. What were the perceptions and specific roles of the researchers and other actors in the design process? 4. How have the four components of the design processresearchers, actors, design object, and problem situation-interacted and coevolved over time? 5. What role object transformations did play in the design process? The case studies are briefly described below. We provide full descriptions of them in the supplementary materials (SM.1). 
 
 From 2005, the invasion of West African mango orchards by the exotic fly Bactrocera dorsalis triggered joint efforts by researchers, donors, and local actors to mitigate fruit losses and safeguard exports. Among various possible solutions, a strong hypothesis was that the ant Oecophylla longinoda could be effective in mitigating fruit fly populations in mango orchards. In the first step, researchers based in Benin simply demonstrated and recommended non-destruction of the weaver ant. They subsequently conducted laboratory tests and field experiments to pin down the mechanisms by which the weaver ant regulates fruit flies. This research enabled them to design a combination of techniques to improve the biocontrol efficiency of weaver ants (Fig.  3a, step A ). These techniques included preserving the grass cover, avoiding insecticide treatments, increasing ant mobility and boosting early ant colony growth by taking care of nests or introducing multiple queens, and transplanting pupae. This upward transformation of the design object mainly resulted from scientific knowledge of the weaver ant's behavioural and ecological patterns that the researchers had accumulated. In a second step, researchers designed solutions to reduce the undesirable effects of the weaver ants (Fig.  3a, step  B ). This second transformation of the design object was prompted by the extensive researcher-actor interactions taking place in eight West African countries, mainly through surveys, training sessions and demonstration plots. These interactions led researchers to understand that many farmers regarded the ants as pests: (i) they bite the farm workers, making the harvesting and the pruning harder and slower; (ii) they decrease the mangoes' market value by encouraging the spread of mutualistic honeydew-producing mealybugs which can damage the skin of the fruit; (iii) they are perceived as reducing yields by damaging flowers and limiting vegetative growth by building their nests in young leaves. Faced with these facts, researchers developed a range of responses to address the criticisms of ant biocontrol. They intensified Fig.  3  Design processes in the cases studied: (a) weaver ants (see section 3.1), (b) nets (see section 3.2), and (c) collective pest and weed management (see section  
 research on the ant's ecology and demonstrated that ants' nests do not affect the mango trees' vegetative growth and that mealybugs only proliferate if farmers treat their orchards with chemical insecticides. Researchers also screened endogenous knowledge in nine countries in order to capture endogenous knowledge and innovations so as to minimise the disadvantages of the ants' presence (e.g. use of repellent on pickers' hands, harvesting with long picking poles, feeding ants with sugar to reduce their aggressive behaviour). In the most recent period, researchers have been trying to bypass obstacles to the adoption of the ant method by isolating repellent compounds from ants to produce a repellent spray against fruit flies, so taking advantage of the ants' repellent power without using them in the orchards (Fig.  3a, step C ). This third transformation was triggered when chemists joined the research team and proposed an innovative solution-the repellent spray-that was outside the entomologists' scope. Thus in this case study, the object under design was transformed through a four-step process. 
 In sub-Saharan Africa, the routine, uncontrolled use of agrochemicals on horticultural crops poses a major threat to human health and the environment. Moreover, repeated broad-spectrum insecticide treatments have triggered resistance in some target fauna, so decreasing the efficacy of the chemicals. A research team based in Benin, West Africa, observed smallholder farmers using nets to protect their nurseries against birds, insect pests, and stray animals. In fact, the farmers were diverting impregnated mosquito nets from a World Health Organization malaria prevention program. The researchers assumed that nets had the potential to become a credible alternative to agrochemicals since they did not require advanced agronomic skills or knowledge of pest management. The researchers started to investigate the potential for nets to control pests on vegetable seedlings and crops. They first confirmed the farmers' empirical observations: the nets acted as a physical barrier, preventing the diamondback moth (Plutella xylostella) from reaching their cabbage seedling beds. The researchers then ran a trial to check the impact of nets on older vegetable crops. They found that although they effectively decreased butterfly populations, nets did not protect against aphids. Worse still, they kept out ladybirds, which are aphids' natural enemies. This led the researchers to combine nets with agrochemical treatments to control aphids (Fig.  3b, step A ). In 2012, net tunnels were distributed to groups of volunteer farmers in Benin and Kenya. Based on results from the first trial, researchers advised the farmers to remove the nets during the day to give access to pests' natural predators. Farmers were also advised to use agrochemicals in the event of severe aphid infestation. These were low net tunnels which could be handled and removed as required. The results of this multi-site experiment were encouraging, but farmers pointed out the amount of work required to install and remove the nets every day. Researchers, therefore, developed a new model of tall, fixed net tunnels on strong metal frames (Fig.  3b, step B ). However, the use of fixed nets increased biotic and abiotic pressure (accumulation of biting pests under the closed nets), which prompted the researchers to explore further. At first, they tried to reduce biotic stresses by impregnating the net with chemicals. This attempt failed and led to controversy owing to the risk of rain flushing pesticides from the net onto the crop (Fig.  3b, step C ). The researchers then changed their approach, combining physical protection with cropping systems based on Integrated Pest Management principles (Fig.  3b , step D): (i) they diversified the cropping systems, using rotations to mitigate telluric pests and diseases (e.g. nematodes); (ii) they tested a range of biocontrol strategies to limit the populations of biting insects (aphid, etc.) that accumulated under the closed nets. Methods tested included biopesticides, beneficial insects, and repellent/attractant plants or compounds. The researchers found that these methods were more effective inside the nets than in open field conditions; (iii) to mitigate the extreme temperatures that could affect the netted crops during the day, researchers started looking for the appropriate mesh size for each country's climate conditions. Mesh size should strike a balance between the natural aeration it provides and the insect species it lets through. Introducing IPM required a broadening of the research consortium, bringing in agronomists, entomologists, chemists, and private companies working to develop biocontrol tools. Finally, in a new multi-site experiment conducted in Kenya, Tanzania, and Côte d'Ivoire, some farmers spontaneously shifted to organic farming systems under the nets (Fig.  3b , step E). Thus the net house case study exemplifies a progressive increase in the complexity of the object under design, from the use of a simple artefact to cover the crops to complex cropping systems combining physical protection, biocontrol and rotations. 
 Martinique is an island in the French West Indies where agriculture mainly consists of mono-cropping plantations of banana and sugar cane, and mixed cropping systems with fruit, vegetables, roots, tubers, and flowers. In the tropical climate of the West Indies, abundant rainfall, warm temperature all year long result in high weed, and pest pressures. This situation has led most farmers to apply large amounts of pesticides. Between 1972 and 1993, banana farmers have massively used a toxic and highly persistent organochlorine pesticide chlordecone to control a borer pest called banana weevil (Cosmopolites sordidus). Due to its persistency in soil and erosion, this highly toxic molecule has contaminated large tracts of farmland and natural areas for centuries. This problem situation prompted actors and researchers to incrementally introduce innovations for weed and pest management. The research was conducted separately for the banana, sugar cane and mixed cropping systems (Fig.  3c, step  A ). Innovations in banana crops included pheromone traps, crop rotation, and improved fallow plants as a way to mitigate insect pests and nematodes. Researchers and actors also designed a bundle of sustainable weed management practices to decrease herbicide use. These included cover crops, crop associations, the use of animals such as poultry and small ruminants, and mechanical weeding (tillage, mowing, and crushing). Further research led them to combine these cropping techniques into coherent cropping systems. For their part, some farmers redesigned their entire cropping systems by gradually adding simple changes or by a direct change of system (Fig.  3c, step B ). Despite these efforts, the problem of herbicide pollution in the watersheds remained unsolved. In 2013, a study explored the impact of agrochemicals on the quality of streams throughout a river catchment. The resulting spatio-temporal modelling revealed that the contamination of rivers by pesticides was due to the accumulation of farmers' practices at the catchment scale. Thus, only a collective approach of pesticide reduction by farmers could help to reduce pollution. A second study exploring the socio-technical drivers of herbicide use revealed that it was difficult to foster effective herbicide reduction strategies because the catchment was not a management entity: it included three types of specialised farms (banana plantations, sugar cane plantations, and small-mixed farms) that did not interact with each other, each being encouraged to use chemicals by specific sectoral drivers. This situation had led to a lock-in, limiting the exploration of innovative solutions so that researchers did not think to challenge the basic monocrop-based model. In the light of these two studies, the researchers were able to overcome single-sector thinking and widen the scope of the design process. Actors from the banana, sugar cane, and mixed horticulture subsectors were brought together and asked to co-design territorial scenarios to improve water quality at the catchment scale (Fig.  3c, step C ). This upward transformation of the design object was made possible by the models, co-design approaches (KCP method, role-playing) and other boundary objects used by researchers to organize the process of innovative design. These tools played a critical role in stimulating inventiveness and structuring collective learning. For each territorial scenario, participants eventually designed a combination of cropping, farming, and organisational systems to improve weed management at the farm level (orchard conversion, forming groups to hire brush cutter operators, etc.) (Fig.  3c, step D ). So in this case study, the object under design evolved from simple cropping techniques to improve monocropping systems incrementally to a combination of cropping systems deployed across space and time, with organisational innovations introduced at catchment scale. 
 
 Based on our three case studies, we discuss how the four components-researchers, non-scientific actors, design object, and problem situation-have interacted and coevolved over time along with design processes (Fig.  4 ). In each of the three cases, the problem situation influenced the design pathways by guiding the design agenda and providing legitimacy for the design work and for getting actors involved (Fig.  4 , right). Initially, problem construction was often driven by the researchers' scientific knowledge and positioning (e.g. crop damage by fruit flies preventing the export of mangoes in Senegal, the appearance of resistance to agrochemicals among pests in West and East Africa, and large-scale pesticide pollution in the French West Indies). In each case, various forms of collaboration with actors (bilateral consultations, co-design methods and tools, and on-farm trials) led to significant changes in the way problem was understood. The change of perception encouraged researchers and actors to bring new knowledge into the design process and to transform the object under design. For example, when surveys and multi-site experiments made it clear that farmers perceived ants as pests, researchers tried to mitigate their undesirable effects by looking into endogenous knowledge and innovations. Similarly, in the French West Indies, researchers implemented the design of a coordinated catchment-wide strategy to reduce water pollution once they understood the distributed nature of the problem. As past studies have shown, problem situations are designated via a constructionist process in which both actors and researchers qualify and requalify the societal problems  In our three cases, the researchers strongly influenced the design pathway since they were the main architects of the object under design and lynchpins of the process (Fig.  4 , top). The work of diagnosis, design, and bringing actors into the process were often guided by knowledge and rules related to the researchers' disciplines and the social organisation of science (e.g. agenda and rules imposed by donors, publish or perish, career interests, theoretical frameworks, the vision of societal progress in the light of a specific discipline). In all three cases, a change in the membership of the research team contributed to a transformation of the design object, by allowing new types of knowledge to be harnessed and by altering the way the problem situation was assessed, the way in which the actors were involved, and the design agenda itself. For instance, in the net-house case study, broadening the consortium to include agronomists, entomologists, and chemists enabled the team to develop complex cropping systems to mitigate biotic and abiotic pressures on crops. In Martinique, agrohydrologists opened up new perspectives for pesticide pollution management at the watershed scale. In Senegal, an entomologist focused on using a natural predator (ants) for pest control while a chemist suggested getting rid of the ants by using their repellent compounds. Transformations of the design objects also resulted from interactions between scientific and non-scientific actors (Fig.  4 , left). Farmers influenced design processes by taking part in problem (re)assessment, in the design itself or by testing on their farms the innovations proposed by researchers. In doing so, they pointed out economic constraints (e.g. initial choice of nets as a pro-poor technology), ergonomic problems (e.g. from low net tunnels to tall ones) or incompatibilities with their own strategies, knowledge bases, constraints, values, and visions of desirable change (e.g. ants seen as pests by African farmers). Actors also initiated or nourished the design process through their grassroots innovations. As we have shown, the researchers made active use of endogenous/ expert knowledge, such as using nets to protect nurseries in Benin. Interactions between researchers and actors occurred in a variety of contexts, including surveys, multi-stakeholder workshops, on-farm trials, and catchment-scale experiments. In workshops, for instance, actors were invited to co-design or assess innovations proposed by researchers. Multi-site on-farm trials were used for testing the agronomic and economic performance of innovations in different sociotechnical and pedoclimatic contexts. In this kind of experiment, farmers could arrange and adapt the innovations provided by researchers to fit their own strategies and constraints (e.g. using net houses for new crops or in a shift to organics). This enabled researchers to enrich or transform the design object based on observation of the farmers involved. This happened in Benin, where researchers designed techniques to reduce the undesirable effects of the weaver ants based on observation of local farmers' solutions. Membership of the actornetwork was not fixed; it often evolved, enabling changes in perceptions of the problem and transformations of the design object. Although very challenging, co-production of knowledge between academic and non-academic communities is an essential prerequisite for research aiming at more sustainable development  The objects under design transformed over time, either incrementally or by moving (up or down) to another organisational level, as the group of researchers and actors evolved, interacted, and learned about the problem situation and the object itself (Fig.  4 , centre). The object's transformation resulted from co-evolutionary mechanisms among the four components of the design processes. In our three case studies, the scale transformations of design objects resulted from: (i) a change in the membership of the research consortium, allowing new types of knowledge to contribute to the design process; (ii) the involvement of non-scientific actors, who highlighted obstacles to adoption; (iii) a change in the perception of the problem situation, leading researchers and actors to re-assess initial prototypes in a new light. 
 Based on our analytical framework, we identified three types of transformation of the design object, each provoked by a specific set of drivers (Table  1 ), and each playing a specific role in the design processes (Fig.  5 ): (i) When the object under design evolved without changing organisational scales (horizontal transformation), it became a source of path dependency, framing the design process, and limiting generativity. In our case studies, it did so (i) by shaping the researchers' perception of the problem situation, the definition of the problem to be solved being guided by a preconceived idea of the object to be designed (e.g. designing weed management techniques within the framework of monocropping); (ii) by constraining innovation possibilities by the material nature of the object (e.g. fixed net houses generating biotic and abiotic constraints); (iii) by generating a cognitive fixation that constrains the perception of what can be done or not; (iv) by orienting the knowledge production process, since the researchers in a design routine gradually accumulate knowledge, always of the same kind, in order to build and refine objects that are rarely called into question. (ii) Upward transformation happened when researchers or actors coupled a given object with an innovation structured at a wider scale. In our cases studies, upward transformation contributed to cognitive defixation by encouraging new actors, new researchers and new types of knowledge to feed the design process. It led researchers and actors to broaden their assessment of problems by mobilising more holistic knowledge. In some cases, it also allowed design teams to overpass adoption breaks. In Martinique, for instance, the design object shifted from mono-cropping systems to a coordinated catchmentwide strategy to reduce water pollution. This change encouraged researchers (i) to mobilise jointly actors from the three subsectors of banana, sugar cane and diversified vegetable; (ii) to mobilise knowledge of sociotechnical systems and spatio-temporal dynamics of contamination of rivers by pesticides; (iii) to design sustainable and acceptable solutions to address the issue of herbicide pollution. (iii) Downward transformation consisted in de-coupling the object under design in order to reuse one of its components in a new context. In our case studies, downward transformation led researchers to use reductionist approaches to focus the design on a subcomponent of the object in order to bypass adoption breaks. In the ant case, chemists proposed an innovative solution-the repellent spray-to take advantage of the ants' repellent power without using them in the orchards. Hence, contrary to a well-established idea in agroecological literature, there are some cases where de-coupling objects through reductionist approaches of science could address problems that holistic ones could not solve. Many other cases of downward transformation were documented in the literature, although authors did not conceptualise it in our way. For instance, an essential oil may be extracted from a companion crop in a cropping system and studied to develop a biopesticide as a new artefact  
 Our findings call for a more nuanced view of the contributions different types of research can make to agroecological design processes. Scholars generally build an ontological opposition between two distinct approaches of agroecological design, based respectively on ecosystems and on human systems, and each connected with a specific field of knowledge  Researchers intend to fill knowledge gaps on existing design objects in order to refine them, without considering other possible knowledge production pathways. 
 The object is relocated to a system innovation structured at a wider scale. Broadening of the problem assessment leads researchers and actors to understand that solutions designed at a given scale are rendered inoperable by ecological or social processes taking place at a higher scale. Obstacles to adoption revealed by actors. Researchers detach from the "know-itall" objective to move towards wider agroecological systems; Intervention by new researchers using holistic approaches to overcome adoption obstacles; Obstacles to adoption revealed by actors. Researchers focus the knowledge production process on a subsystem. Intervention by new researchers using a reductionist approach to bypass adoption obstacles. public regulations-that undermine farming practices, livelihood systems, and their ecological resource base  We argue that these two approaches should not be seen in opposition to each other or as differing in importance, since in real life they are rarely implemented alone  
 The specific characteristics of agroecological design processes-lengthy, non-linear, and multi-scaled challenge the methods and tools used by researchers in their work of co-design. Existing studies of design in agriculture often describe the advantages and limitations of design methods and tools to be used by practitioners. Methods generally propose a series of steps for organising the design process (e.g. diagnosis, participatory modelling, field experiments, and iterative loops for assessing and refining the system under design)  Other methodological frameworks offer possibilities for a deep transformation of design objects, although they do not clearly set the issue of scale. These frameworks propose system-wide approaches such as the "transdisciplinary, participatory, and action-oriented approach" (Mendez et al. 2013), the "Innovation Ecosystems thinking"  cognitive fixations to identify missing fields of knowledge and explore a wider range of concepts. This way, they save time and avoid going deeper and deeper into a subject without knowing if it will actually be relevant in the end. Although originally not specific to agriculture, the innovative design approach has been shown to be appropriate for fostering a genuine agroecological transition for agricultural and food systems  Existing methods and tools also tend to isolate specific moments in the design process, leading them to overlook the long term, a non-linear process in which researchers interventions are embedded. In our three cases studies, the development of agroecological systems was a long and unpredictable process. Researchers and actors went through a step-by-step process of exploration in which the identity and organisation level of the object ultimately designed was not known in advance. The design object evolved over time, owing to a range of drivers. This resulted in nonlinear trajectories through various types of transformation, branching, and dead ends (Fig.  3 ). The design processes were also characterised by repeated changes in the fields of knowledge mobilized as well as in the research teams and groups of actors involved. The objectives of the design process itself evolved over time owing to changes in the perception of the problem to be solved. Moreover, a significant proportion of the researchers involved in designing agroecological systems did not use formalised methods and tools in their work. Design processes were generally not planned, and not all researchers organised a participatory process using well-established steps. Researchers navigated by sight, adapting in real time to the contingencies and opportunities thrown up by projects, funders or partners. Participatory methods and tools were used at particular moments in the development of an innovative system, but they did not constitute the core of the design process. For instance, in the West Indies, researchers associated the K and C phases of the KCP method with socio-technical analysis and a role-playing game to picture a new catchment-wide way to organise pollution control. This initiative occurred after decades of incremental innovations within monocropping systems. Hence, articles that spotlight crucial moments in a design process (e.g. multi-stakeholder workshops followed by participatory experiments) often do not tell the overall story in which these organised methods are embedded. Accordingly, we argue that there is an urgent need to develop design methods and approaches that take full account of the lengthy, non-linear and multi-scale nature of design processes. Such tools could help researchers and practitioners to conduct reflexive and adaptive management of design across scales. 
 In this article, we introduced a new analytical framework of agroecological design processes in order to understand how agroecological systems transform and move to new complexity levels over time, and what are the drivers and consequences of these transformations. We conceptualised an agroecological design process as a non-linear, unpredictable process in which four components-a science consortium, non-scientific actors in the field, a problem situation and a design object-interact and coevolve through time. The scale transformations of the design objects and their drivers are the results of interactions and knowledge flows between these four components. This analytical framework was tested and further elaborated through ex-post analysis of three design processes which had been conducted over a period of two decades by the co-authors of the paper, a multidisciplinary research team focused on tropical horticulture. In our three cases studies, the development of agroecological systems were long, unpredictable processes in which the identity and organisation level of the object ultimately designed were not known in advance. In each case, the researchers and actors went through a step-bystep process of exploration in which the object under design transformed as the groups of researchers and actors evolved and interacted, their perceptions of the problem to be addressed shifting in the process. The problem situations influenced the design processes by guiding the design agendas and providing legitimacy for the design work and the mobilisation of the actors. While the researchers were the main architects of the object under design and lynchpins of the process, the actors influenced the process by participating in problem analysis or in the design itself, or by assessing on their farms the innovations proposed by the researchers. The objects under design evolved over time, either incrementally (horizontal transformation) or through upward/downward transformation. The scale transformations of the design object were driven by (i) a change in the membership of the research consortium; (ii) the involvement of non-scientific actors, who highlighted obstacles to adoption; (iii) a change in the perception of the problem situation, leading researchers and actors to re-assess initial prototypes in a new light. In turn, the objects' transformations played a driving role in the design processes: while horizontal transformations strengthened incremental design approaches and cognitive fixation, scale transformations encouraged new types of knowledge to feed the design process, allowing to overpass (in cases of upward transformations), or to bypass (in cases of downward transformations) adoption breaks. Future design methods should take full account of the systemic mechanisms involved in the transformation of design objects. They should also take into account the lengthy, nonlinear, and multi-scale nature of design processes as well as the coexistence of different types of knowledge-holistic vs. reductionist, focused on ecosystems vs. on human systemswhich interlink and nourish each other. Page 13 of 18
The negative externalities of conventional agriculture are widely recognised  Plant diversification can be incorporated in agroecosystems in different ways, such as crop rotations and/or crop mixtures  Including legumes in cropping systems, in rotation or/and in intercropping, is common in family farms in Africa  To better understand and quantify the potential gain of plant diversification in fragile and poor environments with limited ecosystem functions (rice production, control of white grubs, nematodes, and weeds, N soil fertility and soil macrofauna activity), we compared different short-term rotations based on rainfed rice with rice monocropping systems over a period four years. These diversified rotations included legumes, alone or mixed with cereals. The specific aims of this study were to (i) quantify the effect of plant diversification on the abovementioned ecosystem functions, (ii) assess possible links between them, and (iii) compare the different rotations and the rice monoculture based on their ecosystem functions and on a profitability analysis. 
 
 This study was carried out at Ivory station, located in mid-western Vakinankaratra region (19 • 33 ′ 18.90 ′′ lat. S, 46 • 24 ′ 53.83 ′′ long. E, 930 m a.s.l.) over four cropping seasons  1 ). At the start of the experiment in 2015, soil samples were collected at six randomly selected points in the experimental field in the 0-10, 10-20, 20-40 cm soil layers to determine selected physical-chemical soil properties (Table  1 ). The soil type at the experimental site was a sandyclay-loamy Ferralsol (FAO classification) with 32-18-50% clay-silt-sand composition in the 0-40 cm soil layer. Soil pH (H 2 O) was measured using a glass electrode  
 The field experiment was set up in November 2015 in a field cropped in the previous year with maize and cassava. Three two-year rotations including legumes alone or in a crop mixture, namely (i) rice after groundnut (RG), (ii) rice after sorghum-cowpea (Vigna unguiculata) intercropping (RSC) and (iii) rice after velvet bean (Mucuna pruriens)crotalaria (Crotalaria spectabilis) intercropping (RVC) were compared with rainfed rice monocropping (RR) in a factorial randomised block design with four replications. Rice was considered as the main crop. In each year of the experiment, each crop or crop mixture in the rotation was grown in an individual 45.9 m 2 plot. The cultivars used for the experiment were the rice cultivar Nerica 4, the groundnut cultivar Marabe, the sorghum cultivar IS 2787, the cowpea cultivar Farimaso (Malagasy cultivar) and the velvet bean cultivar utilis. The three rotations were selected for different purposes based on expert knowledge: RG was selected to provide a cash crop and green manure made of groundnut residues, RSC to provide sorghum (grain and vegetative biomass) as forage for livestock, and grain for food and green manure with cowpea, and RVC for its potential to produce large quantities of green manure thanks to the combination of an erect and a climbing plant, and to control plant-feeder nematodes. Tillage, sowing, weeding, and harvest were done manually. Crop management practices are detailed in Table  2 . For all crops or crop mixtures, the soil was tilled by hand using a traditional hand-ploughing tool called 'angady', down to a depth of 15 cm, every year in October before sowing. At the end of November, five to eight rice seeds were sown in a 5-cm deep hole with 20 cm × 30 cm spacing between holes. The holes were dug with the angady. Manure was applied directly in the holes with the rice seeds (the amounts used and nutrient contents are detailed in Table  3 ), no mineral fertiliser was applied. All the management practices carried out on the rotation crops were done some days after those carried out on rice except for harvest. Groundnut, sorghum, cowpea, velvet bean and crotalaria were sown just after rice at a density of 17, 3, 8, 7 and 7 holes m -2 respectively. They were grown without fertiliser or manure and were harvested between mid-April and mid-May, depending on the crop (see Table  2 ). Residues were left on the soil during the dry season and buried during tillage before the rice was sown, except for the sorghum straw which was exported. 
 
 In the first year of the experiment (2015/2016), rice biomass was measured at harvest whereas in the three following years, it was measured in three 0.54 m 2 quadrats on four different dates: at each of the two weedings, at flowering, and at harvest. Measurements at the second weeding in year 4 were cancelled due to a cyclone. The plants were cut at ground level, oven dried at 65 • C for 72 h and weighed to obtain dry matter (DM). At harvest, rice biomass was measured in a 5 m 2 quadrat. Aerial biomass was cut at ground level and a sample of about 200 g was ovendried at 65 • C for 72 h and weighed to obtain DM. Rice panicles were collected manually from this quadrat and hand threshed by stripping the spikelets from the panicles. Unfilled spikelets were removed and filled spikelets were weighed to estimate grain yield. Moisture content of filled spikelets was determined by oven drying at 65 • C for 72 h. Grain yield was adjusted to 14% moisture content on an oven-dry basis. Using the same method, yield components were assessed from nine sowing holes defined at the beginning of the experiment and located in the same place in the 5 m 2 quadrat in each rice field. The number of panicles and weight of 1000 dried filled grains were first assessed, then used to calculate the number of dried filled grains per panicle. N content in the rice biomass and grains was measured with nearinfra-red spectrometry (Labspec 4 spectrometer; ASD Inc., Malvern Panalytical, UK) calibrated with a Dumas procedure using a Leco-Nanalyzer (FP528; Leco Inc., St Joseph, USA) as described in  
 Selected soil physical and chemical properties (mean and standard error, n = 4) of the experimental field at the Ivory station located in the mid-western region, Madagascar. Soil layer (cm) pH (H2O)   Olsen P mg kg -1 CEC cmol kg -1 Total C % N ‰ MO % Clay % Silt % Sand % 0-10 4.9 ± 0.1 4.7 ± 0.9 3.1 ± 0.2 1.7 ± 0.2 1.3 ± 0.1 3.0 ± 0.3 33.1 ± 4.4 17.4 ± 1.1 49.6 ± 4.9 10-20 4.9 ± 0.2 3.5 ± 0.5 3.0 ± 0.2 1.5 ± 0.4 1.2 ± 0.1 2.6 ± 0.7 34.1 ± 7.7 18.0 ± 0.4 48.0 ± 7.9 20-40 5.0 ± 0.0 2.9 ± 0.6 3.0 ± 0.2 1.3 ± 0.1 1.1 ± 0.1 2.2 ± 0.3 27.7 ± 3.5 19.7 ± 2.6 53.4 ± 1.1 
 Weed biomass was measured in rice plots on each of the two weeding occasions in each cropping season. In Year 1, weed biomass was hand weeded on the entire plot, weighed, and 200 g samples were collected. In the three following cropping seasons, weed biomass was cut at ground level in the same 0.54 m 2 quadrats used for rice measurements. Each year, weed samples were weighed and oven-dried at 65 • C for 72 h to obtain dry matter. 
 In all four years of the experiment, fresh legume biomass was measured at harvest (April-May) in two 1 m 2 quadrats. Sub-samples of about 200 g of fresh biomass were oven dried at 65 • C for 72 h to obtain DM. N content in legume residues was determined on dry samples using the dry combustion method with a CHN auto-analyzer (ThermoFisher Flash 2000, USA). 
 N measurements were made in the rice crop in the RR and RVC rotations, which were the two most contrasted rotations in terms of biomass production. In the RG and RSC rotations, N provided by groundnut, sorghum and cowpea was assessed based on the amount of residues left on the field and their N content. Soil sampling was carried out in Years 2 and 3 on four different occasions (at sowing, first weeding, flowering and harvest); in year 4, soil samples were only collected at sowing and flowering. Considering that the effect of rotation on the rice crop would not be noticeable in the year the experiment was established, no soil samples were collected in Year 1. Soil was sampled in the 0-10, 10-20, 20-40, 40-60 and 60-80 cm soil layers in three locations in the plot (the same locations as for rice, weed and pest measurements, except at sowing). Samples from the three locations were pooled and stored in a freezer at -4 • C. Soil inorganic N (ammonium and nitrate) was extracted with 2 N KCl solutions by shaking the suspension (30 g soil per 100 ml of solution) for 1 h. Samples were left to decant, then the supernatant was filtered through a 0.2 µm Millipore filter (Merck, Darmstadt, Germany) and stored in a sterile tube until analysis. A 50 g soil subsample was oven dried at 105 • C for 48 h to determine the dry weight of the extracted soil. Nitrate-N concentration was determined using the colorimetric cadmium reduction and the Griess-Ilosvay reaction  
 In Year 1 and 3, nematodes were extracted at the flowering stage from 200 g fresh soil samples by elutriation  
 Sampling was performed in the four rotations using Tropical Soil Biology and Fertility (TSBF) methodology  White grub attacks on rice were also recorded by counting the number of attacked rice plants in the same quadrat as that used for yield. 
 As no effect of rotation could be expected in rice plots in Year 1, statistical analyses were done using the data from years 2, 3 and 4. 
 All soil and rice variables were subjected to analysis of variance (ANOVA) for linear mixed effects models. Rice grain yield and N content were tested with rotation and block as fixed effects, and season, season × block and season × rotation interactions as random effects. Rice and weed biomass, rice biomass N content, and soil inorganic N content were tested with rotation, block, date, and rotation × date interactions as fixed effects, and season, season × block and season × rotation interactions as random effects. In order to test the effect of rotation, some random effects were selected for each variable analysed using the Akaike and Schwarz information criteria (AIC and BIC). Rotation means were then compared using Tukey's honestly significant difference test (Tukey's HSD). When normality and variance assumptions were not respected, data were log-transformed (weed biomass), or fixed effects (rotation, date, and rotation x date) were tested using the Kruskal-Wallis test, and significant differences between means were compared using Dunn's test (N content in rice biomass, in rice grains, and in the biomass of residues). Statistical analyses were done with R software (R-4.0.0) using the packages lme4  
 Differences in the abundance of nematode trophic groups between rotations were assessed with a oneway ANOVA coupled with post-hoc Tukey's HSD test in Year 1 (under rotation crops and rice) and in Year 3 (under rice). Attack rate and abundance of white grubs, and the abundance and diversity indices of macrofauna were analysed with a mixed model with rotation and block as fixed effects, with season, rotation × season and block × season as random effects. To test the rotation effect, several random effects were selected for each variable analysed using the Akaike and Schwarz information criteria (AIC and BIC). Raw data were used for species richness and the Shannon diversity index while transformed data were used for other variables: the square root of arcsine for the attack rate, and the square root of abundance data for white grubs and other macrofauna. 
 We computed different indicators to assess how the different rotations and rice monocropping affected ecosystem functions. Six ecosystem functions were assessed: crop production, control of weeds and plant-feeding nematodes, soil fertility, soil biodiversity and soil abundance. Crop production was assessed using rice yield; weed biomass and abundance of plant-feed nematodes were used to assess weed and nematode control, soil fertility using soil inorganic N content at rice sowing, and soil biodiversity and abundance using macrofauna species richness and abundance, respectively. For soil fertility, the amount of soil inorganic N at sowing in the RG and RSC rotations was estimated from N in the residues and a relationship between soil N at sowing and N residues defined with RR and RVC measurements. We consider the N returned by crop biomass to the soil is a good proxy of N soil content (low mineralisation of residues during the dry and cold season before the following cropping season and no other external nutrients applied). Links between these ecosystem functions were assessed using a Pearson's correlations matrix. To gain insights into the potential economic sustainability of the different rotations we tested, we estimated their relative costs and gains and calculated the gross margin at the scale of the rotation. Gains were calculated based on averaged yields observed for rice, groundnut and cowpea and averaged market prices. Weeding costs were estimated proportionally to the total labour required for this task and the amount of weeded biomass measured under each rotation averaged over the whole experiment (rice + crops rotation). We did not consider costs related to sowing or tillage, as these costs were the same for all the plots in our controlled experimental context. Conversely, costs related to organic manure were taken into account (fertiliser was only applied on rice), and calculated based on market prices. The gross margin was used to assess profitability. First, a correlation matrix was calculated between the ecosystem functions to reveal any possibly links between them. The ecosystem functions and profitability indicators were then transformed to obtain a score ranging from 0 to 1 using the following equations: (1) (V T -V min ) / (V max--V min ) when the lowest values observed corresponded to the lowest performances, (2) (V T -V max ) / (V min--V max ) when the highest values observed corresponded to the lowest performances (i.e. for weed biomass and plant-feeder nematodes). where V T is the value observed in the rotation under consideration (RG, RSC, or RVC) or RR monocropping, V min and V max are the minimum and maximum values observed in the four rotations. For each criterion assessed, the highest performance is indicated by the score 1 and the lowest by the score 0. All experimental data are available online on CIRAD dataverse  
 
 Date, rotation, and the interaction date × rotation had a significant effect (p < 0.001) on rice growth. Considering the different measurement dates, the rotation effect was significant (p < 0.001) throughout the rice crop cycle except at the first weeding (W1, Fig.  2 ). From the second weeding to harvest, rice biomass in the RVC (rice -velvet bean + crotalaria) rotation was 80-100% higher than in RR (rainfed rice as monocrop), and 40% higher in RG (rice-groundnut) and RSC (ricesorghum + cowpea) than in RR. At the second weeding, rice biomass in the RVC rotation was twice higher than in RR (2.54 vs 1.25 t ha -1 ) while the biomass in RG and RSN was intermediate (about 1.7 t ha -1 , Fig.  2 ). At flowering, rice biomass was significantly higher in the RVC and RSC rotations than in RR while RG was intermediate. Finally, rice biomass was similar in RVC, RSC and RG but was significantly higher than in RR at harvest (Fig.  2 ). The rotation effect on grain yield was highly significant (p < 0.001, Fig.  2 ). Compared to the yield observed in Year 1, it decreased only in the RR rotation (on average for Year 2-4 2.29 vs. 3.51 t ha -1 in Year 1). Yields in the RVC rotation were 80% higher than in RR (p < 0.001, 4.31 vs. 2.29 t ha -1 ) and about 30% higher than in RG and RSC (p < 0.05, 3.19 and 3.25 t ha -1 respectively). These differences were due to a significantly higher number of filled grains per panicle (p < 0.01) in all the rotations compared to in RR (63.3 vs. 51.4, data not shown), and a significantly higher number of panicles per hole (p < 0.01) in RVC than in the other rotations and RR (13.1 vs. 10.3, data not shown). We observed similar trends in rice biomass N content to those we observed in rice biomass with a highly significant effect of date and rotation, and their interaction (p < 0.001). At each date, we observed the same differences between rotations as for rice biomass except at harvest, when rice N content was twice higher in RVC and RG than in RR, while no significant difference was observed for RSC (Fig.  2 ). Grain N content differed less between rotations than grain yield. Grain N content was similar in the RVC, RSC and RG rotations, and significantly higher than in RR (+ 40-70%). 
 Rotation had a significant effect on weed biomass measured at the second weeding and on total weed biomass (Table  4 ). Weed biomass at the first weeding was around 0.15 t ha -1 whatever the year of experiment and the rotation considered. At the second weeding, weed biomass was three times higher in RR and RG than in RVC while in RSC it was intermediate (Table  4 ). Total weed biomass was more than twice as high in RR than in the RVC rotation (p < 0.05, 0.49 vs. 0.18 t ha -1 respectively) while in RG and RSC, total weed biomass was intermediate (Table  4 ). In comparison to Year 1, weed biomass only decreased in the RVC rotation (0.18 vs. 0.36 t ha -1 for total weed biomass). 
 N content in groundnut and cowpea residues was significantly lower than in the crotalaria/velvet bean mixture (p < 0.001; 23.3 and 21.5 kgN ha -1 vs. 113.7 N ha -1 respectively, data not shown) but similar to the N content measured in rice straw (12.4 kgN ha -1 ). A significant effect of the date (p < 0.001) and the date x rotation interaction (p < 0.001) were observed on soil inorganic N content. Soil inorganic N content was significantly higher in RVC than in the RR rotation on the two first measurement dates, i.e., at sowing and at the first weeding (+ 35 kgN ha -1 and + 51 kgN ha -1 respectively, Table  5 ). At flowering and harvest, RR and RVC rotations showed a similar value, around 15 kgN ha -1 . 
 Rotation had a significant impact on the density of plant-feed (p < 0.05) in both Year 1 and 3 (Fig.  3 ), and the patterns were similar in the two years. The abundance of plant-feeders was highest in RR in both years while it was significantly lower in the RG and RVC rotations (respectively -79% and -69% of the density observed in the RR rotation in Year 1, and -67% and -68% of the density observed in the RR rotation in Year 3). On the other hand, the density of plant-feeders was intermediate in RSC in both years and did not differ significantly from that in the other rotations. The density of omnivores and carnivores' nematodes differed in the same way between rotations as the density of plant feeders, albeit only significantly in Year 3, when the highest densities were found in RR (1068 ± 322 ind kg -1 soil), and were significantly lower in RG and RVC (respectively -80% and -72% of the density observed in the RR rotation), while in RSC, intermediate values were observed (692 ± 573 ind kg -1 soil). Finally, rotation had no significant effect on the density of bacterial-and fungal-feed nematodes in Year 1 or 3 (p > 0.05, Fig.  3 ). 
 Weed biomass (in t DM ha -1 ) at the first and second weeding and cumulated over the rice crop cycle in the four rotations over Year 2-4 of the experiment. Mean ± confidence interval at 95% and p-value related to the rotation effect. Means are calculated over Year 2-4 of the experiment. W1 = first weeding, W2 = second weeding. Letters indicate significant difference between rotations.    
 Due to marked variability, rotation had no significant effects on macrofauna biomass, density and diversity (Table  S1 ). Density ranged between 21 and 28 ind m -2 and was mainly represented by social insects such as ants and termites and Coleopteran larvae. No earthworms were collected during the experiment. Detritivores were slightly higher in RVC, and herbivores slightly higher in RR but the difference was not significant. In the same way, species richness and the Shannon index were lower in RR than in the other rotations but not significantly so. In the same way, the rotation had neither significant effect on the number of attacks by white grubs nor on the density of white grubs despite higher density in RSV and RG compared to the other rotations. In general, populations of white grubs were very small (Table  S1 ). Three main species were found, among the most common in the zone: Enaria melanictera (Melolonthidae), Heteroconus paradoxus (Dynastidae) and SpS1, identified as Hyposerica sp (Sericidae,  
 Crop production was positively and significantly correlated with weed and nematode control (r = 0.66 and 0.64 respectively, p < 0.01, Table  6 ) as well as with soil fertility (r = 0.54, p < 0.05). Weed control was also correlated with soil fertility (r = 0.62, p< 0.01). In contrast, no significant correlation was found with soil macrofauna abundance or biodiversity. Profitability was highest in RVC and lowest with RSC (Table  7 ). In RVC, profitability was mainly explained by the low cost of weeding (lowest weed biomass, Table  4 ) and higher income from the crops (highest rice grain yield, Fig.  2 ) while the income from crops was the lowest in RSC (mean rice yield and low cowpea yield) with a medium weeding cost. RR and RG profitability were similar in both crop production years (rice in RR and rice and groundnut in RG) but were offset by the higher cost of manure and of weeding in RR and RG, respectively. In the assessment of the ecosystem functions and profitability analysis, RR monocropping obtained the lowest scores (null score) for four criteria whereas profitability, soil biodiversity and soil macrofauna abundance obtained medium to high scores (> 0.45; Fig.  4 ). In contrast, RVC had the highest scores for all the criteria except soil macrofauna abundance, for which the score was medium (0.36). RG and RSC scores were intermediate. RG obtained medium to high scores (between 0.45 and 0.98) for crop production, profitability, soil biodiversity and nematode control, but low to null scores (< 0.11) for soil macrofauna abundance, soil fertility and weed control. RSC obtained medium scores for nematode control, crop production and weed control (between 0.32 and 0.48), low scores (around 0.10) for soil fertility and soil macrofauna abundance, and null scores for soil diversity and profitability. 
 
 Rotations with legumes had a positive impact on soil fertility and N content in rice biomass and grain, as reported in other studies  2b ), N could be subject to leaching when the amount of N fixed is high. Indeed, another study   showed that including legumes in poor environments can lead to soil acidification, which, in the long term, may hamper soil biological activity and reduce soil phosphorus availability, another crucial nutrient for crop yield  
 As also reported in other studies  In our study, the soil cover provided by the crop before rice and soil fertility seemed to be the main factors responsible for the different degrees of weed control provided by the different rotations. Indeed, groundnut was the crop with the lowest soil cover and biomass production, resulting in higher weed infestation in the rice (Table  4 ) and groundnut crop cycle (data not shown), whereas the opposite trend was observed in the RVC rotation (i.e., high soil cover and biomass production, leading to low weed infestation during the mixed crop and rice cycle). As noted by  The positive impact of rotation on plant-feeders nematodes could be mainly linked to two factors: (i) the host/non-host status of the crops grown in the rotation  Our results concerning infestations by white grubs did not allow us to draw conclusions, perhaps due to the conventional management practices applied in our study that led to low levels of infestation as already shown in similar biophysical conditions  
 As reported in  6 ). Lower levels of weed infestation and lower densities of plant-feeders nematodes provided better growth conditions for rice (less competition for nutrients and fewer pathogens), and, as explained above, this was emphasised by higher soil fertility. The significant correlations between yield and these variables suggest that all three factors positively affected rice productivity, albeit less for soil fertility (r = 0.54) than the others (r ≥ 0.64). These effects were also beneficial in terms of profitability, the highest profitability was observed in the case of rotation with no cash crops as in RVC, due to the combination of (i) higher rice yields, (ii) lower weeding costs, and (iii) lower manure costs because the rotation crops were not fertilised. RG also scored well on profitability due to (i) a higher market price than for rice and (ii) a high average rice yield, which led to a higher profit. Despite the assumptions we made to assess profitability based on our experimental data, we think these results are relevant. We possibly underestimated the profit to be obtained with a RG (rice/groundnut) rotation, as in our experiment, groundnut was sown at a lower plant density which should reduce the cost of labour, and for RSC we were unable to attribute a value to the fact that sorghum straw and grains can be used for livestock. Cost-benefits analysis is now needed in real farms to be able to recommend the crop rotations best adapted to farmers' conditions and objectives, but also related to market demand  
 We showed that even in short-term rotations, ecosystem functions, yield, and profitability can be enhanced by plant diversification. Nevertheless, different crops or crop mixtures should be included in rotations with rice to avoid possible the drawbacks of short rotations  4 ). The cereal-legume intercrop in rotation with rice did not lead to significant improvement mainly due to the negative impact of nematodes and relatively variable yields, probably linked to the high variability of biomass production by the crop mixture over the course of the experiment. These two examples call for more research to select the species the best adapted to the famers' objectives and the services they expect, and local constraints  
 In family farms in the Malagasy highlands, plant diversification is often a way to for smallholders to compensate for their lack of access to external inputs, to be more resilient, and to increase their income. In this study, we quantified the benefits of plant diversification in short rainfed rice-based rotations, in terms of crop production, weed and nematode control, soil fertility, macrofauna biodiversity and abundance, and profitability. We showed that rotations have varying levels of positive impacts on these different ecosystem functions depending on the crops chosen for the rotation or for crop mixtures. At the rotation scale, profitability was always better in rotations than in rice monocropping due to the rapid and marked decrease in rice yield in rice monocropping. Better results were observed in the rotation with non-cash crops, suggesting that different ways of support should be introduced to help poor farmers include a period of fallow with no income. It is crucial to improve our knowledge of crop species development according to the diversification practices chosen; to combine experimentation in controlled and real conditions so as to be able to give contextualised technical advice. Modelling approaches could be a great help in extending our knowledge and in providing guidance to farmers to test different plant diversification options and assess their performances with respect to farm sustainability.
World food production raised by a factor of 2.5 from 1960 to 2000 due to an increase in the application of fertilizers, irrigation, and pesticides altogether with the use of improved cultivars and continued progress in agricultural machinery and technologies. Unfortunately, this intensification of agriculture resulted in a decrease in air and water quality, water shortages, soil erosion, resistance of weeds and pathogens to pesticides, and a decrease in plant and soil biodiversity  Agroecology is widely recognized as a relevant systemic alternative based on ecological intensification that might be combined with Green Revolution technologies to move towards sustainable agriculture  Introducing legumes to fix atmospheric nitrogen (N 2 ) and thus reduce application of N fertilizers in cereal-based crop rotations has been widely studied and experimentally demonstrated. Sowing multispecies cover crops to avoid bare soils between cash crops decreases N leaching and increases soil nutrient availability. When they contain cruciferous species, cover crops can function as natural biofumigants to reduce the inoculum of some soil-borne diseases  Designing cropping systems to reduce drastically the use of pesticides and N fertilizers requires combining several diversification practices with a systemic approach. It also requires adapting farmers' decision rules to maximize their effects and provide ecosystem services for sustainable agriculture. Unfortunately, field experiments on such diversified cropping systems have not received much attention, and a few results are available on cropping systems' comparison and multicriteria assessment. Experiments on cropping systems are traditionally used to test disruptive or innovative systems or those that have not yet been adopted in practice and require rigorous evaluation at experimental stations  The generic approach of prototyping was developed to design and evaluate cropping systems according to a set of objectives and constraints. Agronomic strategies were translated by the cropping system designer into decision rules (including thresholds for triggering cropping practices) for easy implementation by farmers and experimental evaluation  We adapted this methodological framework to design and evaluate prototypes of diversified cropping systems aiming at drastically reducing the use of pesticides and N fertilizers, as a way to lower agriculture's dependence on chemical inputs and fossil energy and to limit the environmental and human health impacts. The strategy of diversification was used to decrease the vulnerability of crops to diseases. These prototypes were designed to identify alternatives to the common 2-year rotation of sunflower (Helianthus annuus L.) and durum wheat (Triticum turgidum L. subsp. durum) currently practiced on rainfed farms in southwestern France. Although this cropping system is cost-effective and largely adopted, it has several agronomic disadvantages notably when practiced widely over a region  • Shallow tillage after sunflower harvest leads to unburied stalks that are sources of inoculum for fungal diseases (e.g., Phomopsis stem canker, Phoma black stem) in adjacent sunflower fields. • Sunflower stalks release relatively little N and, due to their high C:N ratio, require more N in the soil than cruciferous or legume residues to decompose. • The lack of cover crops on the steeply sloped clay soils of southwestern France leads to a high risk of soil erosion during the fallow period (i.e., more than 9 months from wheat harvest in July to sunflower sowing in April). • Some weeds are difficult to control due to the short crop rotation, which prevents a large decrease in herbicide use. Therefore, we assumed that a more diversified crop rotation that includes legumes, cover crops, species mixtures, and/or cultivar mixtures could improve the environmental performance of the cropping system while maintaining profitability and producing a similar amount of grain. Our study tested this assumption by designing and assessing six cropping system prototypes (Fig.  1 ) during 6 years in southwestern France. The objectives of this study were thus to (i) assess whether each prototype met the objectives based on three major indicators (N fertilizer use, pesticide use, and semi-net margin) and (ii) compare the prototypes using multicriteria assessment based on quantitative indicators that reflected the production factors applied and agro-economic performances. 
 
 The study site was located at the INRAE (French National Research Institute for Agriculture, Food and Environment) experimental station in Auzeville, southwestern France (43° 31′ 38″ N, 1° 30′ 22″ E). The 6-year cropping system experiment was set up in 2010 on a deep silt-clay to clay soil (0-120 cm). The upper layer (0-30 cm) consisted of 27% clay, 36% silt (of which 65% was fine silt and 35% coarse silt) and 37% sand (of which 41% was fine sand and 59% coarse sand). The soil had a mean CaCO 3 content of 0.03%, organic matter content of 1.5%, and pH of 7.3. The climate is altered oceanic, with mean annual precipitation of 648 mm and mean annual temperature of 13.8 °C (data from 1996 to 2016). Weather data were recorded throughout the experiment (Fig.  2     
 
 The cropping system prototypes were defined during codesign workshops, involving agronomic researchers, technicians, and agricultural engineers advising farmers. The experiment studied low-input cropping systems designed to reduce the use of chemical inputs (N fertilizers and pesticides) as alternatives to the common 2-year durum wheat/ sunflower cropping system without irrigation (COM). The design of the cropping system prototypes had to comply with two main goals: (i) maintain durum wheat and sunflower in the crop rotation to limit the impacts on the current organization of the agrifood chain and (ii) assess the effect of cover crops, which are mandatory in nitrate-sensitive areas, by designing each cropping system both with cover crops during fallow periods and without them (i.e., bare soil). Consequently, six prototypes of three crop rotations were designed, all aiming at reducing the use of pesticides by 50%, but with additional objectives regarding N fertilizer and semi-net margin (Table  1 ): • A low-input (LI) system based on a sunflower/durum wheat/sorghum (Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench) crop rotation with cover crops (LI_CC) and without cover crops (LI). The objectives of LI(_CC) (i.e., LI and LI_ CC) at the 3-year period scale were to reduce the use of N fertilizers by 25% (compared to the COM) and to achieve 100% of the COM semi-net margin. • A very low-input system with cultivar mixtures (VLI_ CM) based on a sunflower/faba bean (Vicia faba L.)/ durum wheat crop rotation with cover crops (VLI_CM_ CC) and without cover crops (VLI_CM). The objectives of VLI_CM(_CC) (i.e., VLI_CM and VLI_CM_CC) were to reduce the use of N fertilizers by 50% and to achieve 90% of the COM semi-net margin. • A very low-input system with species mixtures (VLI_ SM): sunflower-soybean (Glycine max (L.) Merr.)/triticale (Triticosecale rimpaui Wittm.)-faba bean/durum wheat-winter pea (Pisum sativum L.), with cover crops (VLI_SM_CC) or without cover crops (VLI_SM). For the second 3-year period, crop rotation's composition was modified according to the decision rules (Section 2.2.2), with durum wheat-winter pea introduced as the second mixture and soft wheat (Triticum aestivum L.)-faba bean as the third one. The objectives of VLI_SM(_CC) (i.e., VLI_SM and VLI_SM_CC) were to reduce the use of N fertilizers by 50% and to achieve 85% of the COM seminet margin without seed treatments. To preserve soil health and biodiversity, mouldboard plowing was limited to 1 out of 3 years for VLI_CM and VLI_SM, which corresponds to a mouldboard plowing before sunflower instead of (i) 1 out of 2 years for the COM, which corresponds to a mouldboard plowing before sunflower, and (ii) 2 out of 3 years for LI, which corresponds to a mouldboard plowing before sunflower and before sorghum. These six prototypes (LI, LI_CC, VLI_CM, VLI_ CM_CC, VLI_SM, and VLI_SM_CC) followed an   
 Technical operations were performed to follow the objectives of the prototypes, which influenced the decision rules defined during the design process of the prototypes and applied for their daily management. The decision rules were based on several parameters, such as the presence or risk of pests, climatic conditions, or the N content in soil and crop residues. Thus, crop auxiliaries, animal pests, diseases, and weeds were monitored throughout the experiment to adapt farm management. Consequently, the technical operations differed by prototype and year, especially due to weather variability, as a consequence of the application of the formalized decision rules. As a first decision rule, the sowing dates were determined to reduce the use of pesticides and avoid extreme weather events. For example, winter crops were sown later than those in conventional systems to avoid cereal aphids (Rhopalosiphum padi) and thus the use of insecticides. Spring crops were sown early to avoid water shortages and heat at the flowering stage, which is a critical period for seed set and final grain size. Mechanical weeding (false seedbed, tine harrow, rotary harrow, and hoeing) was performed during early crop stages to reduce herbicide use as much as possible. The N-budget method derived from  The crop species used to diversify the common durum wheat/sunflower cropping system was chosen to maintain these two crops in each prototype and to include a third crop according to the objectives of each prototype. For LI(_CC) prototypes, grain sorghum was chosen because it was assumed to require few pesticides and moderate N fertilizer. For VLI_CM(_CC) prototypes, faba bean was chosen because it was assumed to require few pesticides and no N fertilization. For VLI_SM(_CC) prototypes, in order to decrease competition for N and thus reduce N fertilizer inputs, grain legumes were chosen for all mixtures: (i) pea with durum wheat, (ii) soybean with sunflower, and (iii) faba bean with a cereal crop. This changed in the second 3-year period because the soil N content was too low after the sunflower-soybean mixture to meet durum wheat yield and protein objectives. As a result, the durum wheat-winter pea mixture was postponed to the second year and was replaced in the third year by a soft wheat-winter pea mixture. Soft wheat was chosen instead of triticale due to its more consistent yield and higher selling price when sold for human consumption. All cultivars were chosen according to their agronomic performances and information on their disease tolerance. 
 
 The experiment covered ca. 3.5 ha and was composed of nine plots (200 m × 30 m) for the prototypes, which were separated by 6 m of grass buffer strips. Each plot was divided into two 200 m × 15 m subplots (one with cover crops and one without). The subplots were designed to enable the use of common agricultural machinery and thus conform to farmers' technical constraints. All cash crops in each cropping system prototype were grown each year and were randomly distributed in three spatial blocks of three plots each to consider soil heterogeneity. The COM consisted of sunflower and durum wheat in a 2-year rotation cultivated in two fields also located at the INRAE experimental station in Auzeville on a similar soil and managed by the INRAE Experimental Unit of Toulouse-Auzeville. 
 At harvest, plants were sampled in two areas per subplot. In each sampling area, plants were harvested manually from a given area as a function of the density of the species grown (2.4 m 2 for durum wheat and cereal-legume mixtures and 3 m 2 for sunflower, faba bean, and the sunflower-soybean mixture). Aboveground biomass samples were divided into grain and vegetative parts and, in species mixtures, separated by species. The samples were dried at 80 °C for 48 h. N content in the grain and vegetative parts were determined using the Dumas combustion method with an elemental analyzer (LECO CNS-2000, LECO Corp., St. Joseph, Michigan, USA) from (i) a 10 × 20 cm area for cereals, winter pea, and faba bean and (ii) 20 plants for sunflower, soybean, and sorghum. The content of sunflower seed oil was measured from 125 achenes by nuclear magnetic resonance using a spectrometric analyzer (Minispec mq10, Bruker). 
 The soil mineral N (ammonium and nitrate) content was measured during three key periods (after harvest, early winter, and late winter) in two sampling areas of each subplot. In each of the sampling area, six soil samples were collected on four soil layers (0-30, 30-60, 60-90, and 90-120 cm) which were then pooled per soil layer, homogenized, and stored at -18 °C until their analyze with a continuous flow analyzer Page 7 of 19 65 (Scan + + , SKALAR). NH 4 + concentration was measured using Berthelot's method  and NO 3  -concentration according to the method developed by Navone (1964). 
 Agro-economic and socio-technical objectives were defined for each prototype relative to the COM. To assess whether these objectives were met and to compare the prototypes, indicators related to their agro-economic performance and the production factors applied were calculated (Table  2 ) to carry out a multicriteria evaluation of performances. 
 Crop diversity of the prototypes was characterized by the cash crop species richness  1 ). Soil tillage was assessed based on three indicators calculated at the 3-year period scale for each year, i.e., the mean number of (i) mouldboard plowings (30 cm deep), (ii) shallow tillage operations (< 15 cm deep), and (iii) mechanical weed control operations (< 10 cm deep). 
 Several production factors (Table  2 ) were applied to meet the objectives of the cropping systems. The treatment frequency index (TFI) was used to assess pesticide pressure. To characterize the main type of pesticide pressure accurately, TFI was separated into three components according to the taxon (weed, fungal disease, or insect) targeted: TFI Herbicide , TFI Fungicide , and TFI Insecticide . For each cropping system, toxicity of pesticides-the total number of applications of molecules registered as toxic to humans (i.e., corrosive, acutely toxic, harmful, an irritant, hazardous to health, carcinogenic, or mutagenic)-was quantified. Toxicity was defined based on the information provided by the material safety data sheet for each product. The amount of N fertilizer was quantified to verify the initial objectives of each prototype. Finally, labor time was calculated as a social indicator to assess the total time spent to produce crops. 
 The agro-economic performance of the cropping system prototypes was assessed by calculating the semi-net margin (Table  2 ). To understand the differences observed in this indicator, all of its components (i.e., gross income, operational costs, and mechanical costs) were also calculated. Mean crop price and subsidies of each cash crop were calculated over the 6 years of the two 3-year periods (Table  2 ) to eliminate the variability not directly related to the experiment. Species mixtures were considered to be sold as a feed grain mixture, except for sunflower-soybean, since each species in the mixture was harvested and sold separately. Grain yield was assessed for durum wheat and sunflower, which were grown in all cropping systems, as well as grain quality (i.e., protein content for durum wheat and oil content for sunflower). For a given species, we distinguished (i) the grain yield at the crop scale, corresponding to the quantity produced on 1 ha cultivated with this species (or mixture), and (ii) the quantity of grain produced by this species on 1 ha of the cropping system, since each species represents only 33% of the surface area for the prototypes and 50% for the COM. Similarly, we distinguished (i) the protein and oil content of the grain and (ii) the amount of protein and oil produced on 1 ha of the cropping system. For the COM, because of sample losses, the protein content of durum wheat grain was not measured in 2011, 2012, and 2014, nor was the oil content of sunflower grain in 2011 and 2012. Consequently, we used the mean contents of all prototypes for these missing data in order to consider the year effect on grain protein content and oil content. Moreover, according to the crop management of durum wheat and sunflower in the COM, the protein content and oil content are expected to be at least similar to the average of the prototypes and closed to the commercial quality standard since the agricultural cooperative that bought the grain did not modify the price greatly during this period nor deliver premiums or apply penalties for the range of qualities obtained in the experiment. We used the commercial quality standard of 13% protein for durum wheat and 44% oil for sunflower as the threshold values for considering whether the grain quality of the cropping systems was acceptable. The price of durum wheat, soft wheat, and sunflower was considered constant regardless of the harvest quality (i.e., grain protein content for durum wheat and grain oil content for sunflower). Finally, energy efficiency, hereafter defined as the ratio of energy produced to energy consumed, was used to assess and compare the cropping systems on a standardized productivity scale using data from ADEME (2011). 
 Data were analyzed using R software (R Core Team 2018). Two-way analyses of variance (ANOVAs) were conducted to determine the effects of the 3-year period  
 Indicators used to characterize the cropping systems. The indicators were calculated at the yearly scale, where "n" is the number of cash crops in the crop rotation (two for the common 2-year durum wheat/sunflower cropping system and three for the prototypes).  
 €•ha -1 •year -1 Mechanical_costs = ∑ n i=1 Area i × (Tractor_cost i + Equipment_cost i + Fuel_costs) where 'n' is the number of mechanical operations on a plot, 'i' is the area worked (in ha) and the costs of the tractor and equipment (in €.ha-1), which depend on the mechanical operation, correspond to wear, maintenance and amortization €•ha -1 •year -1 Semi_net_margin Energy_efficiency €•ha -1 •year -1 = ∑ n i=1 Area i × (Tractor_cost i + Equipment_cost i + Fuel_costs) measured by NMR spectroscopy % of dry matter = ∑ n i=1 Area i × (Tractor_cost i + Equipment_cost i + Fuel_costs) determined using the Dumas combustion method % of dry matter = ∑ n i=1 Area i × (Tractor_cost i + Equipment_cost i + Fuel_costs) = 5.7 × grainnitrogencontent % of dry matter given 3-year period and differences between the two 3-year periods for a given cropping system. When significantly different (p < 0.05), means were compared using Tukey's range test. For all ANOVAs, normality of residuals was checked visually and the homogeneity of variances was tested using the Levene test. 
 
 Sunflower and durum wheat were the two species present in the COM and all prototypes, although they were grown in a cultivar mixture in VLI_CM(_CC) or as components of species mixtures in VLI_SM(_CC). Grain yields of sunflower and durum wheat for LI(_ CC) and VLI_CM(_CC) did not differ significantly from that of the COM (Fig.  3a  and b ). Conversely, in VLI_ SM(_CC), grain yields of sunflower and durum wheat (1.3 and 3.9 t•ha -1 •yr -1 , respectively) were significantly lower than that of the COM (3.0 and 6.3 t•ha -1 •yr -1 , respectively; Fig.  3a  and b ). The total amount of sunflower produced on 1 ha in the prototypes was significantly lower than that of the COM (0.8 vs. 1.5 t•ha -1 •yr -1 , respectively; Fig.  3c ), and the same result was observed for durum wheat (1.7 vs. 3.2 t•ha -1 •yr -1 , respectively; Fig.  3d ). Sunflower grain oil content (Fig.  3e ) did not differ significantly among all prototypes for a given 3-year period (47.9% and 44.4% for the first and the second periods, respectively). For the first period, sunflower grain oil content was higher than the commercial quality standard of 44%, regardless of the prototype. In the second period, grain oil content tended to decrease but remained higher than the commercial norm, except for VLI_SM (40.9%). Likewise, grain protein content of durum wheat (Fig.  3f ) did not differ significantly among all prototypes for a given 3-year period or between the two periods (12.2% and 12.1% for the first and the second 3-year periods, respectively) and was slightly lower than the commercial quality standard of 13%. However, the total amount of protein produced by durum wheat on 1 ha in the prototypes was lower than that in the COM (0.21 vs. 0.40 t•ha -1 •yr -1 , respectively; Fig.  3g ), as was the total amount of oil produced by sunflower (0.39 vs. 0.67, respectively; Fig.  3h ). •year -1 
 The type of cropping system, which reflects effects of practices, influenced significantly all production factors and differently depending on prototypes and indicators considered (Fig.  4 ; Table  3 ). The 3-year period, which reflects mainly the effect of weather, influenced significantly all production factors except the amount of N fertilizer applied and labor time (Fig.  4 ; Table  3 ). The 3-year period had a greater effect than the prototype on TFI, TFI Herbicide , TFI Fungicide , and toxicity. The effect of the 3-year period on TFI and TFIHerbicide concerned only the VLI_SM(_CC) prototypes, with values lower for the first 3-year period (0.86 and 0.19, respectively) than the second one (1.49 and 0.72, respectively). TFIFungicide did not differ between the first and the second 3-year period for any of the cropping systems (0.41 vs. 0.67, respectively). Insecticides were used only once in 2011 on durum wheat-winter pea mixture, against green aphids found on the peas. TFI values of all prototypes did not differ significantly from that of the COM for the second 3-year period (1.44 vs. 2.08, respectively) but were significantly lower during the first 3-year period for LI(_CC) and VLI_SM_CC (1.75 vs. 0.76, respectively). Only VLI_CM_CC and VLI_SM(_CC) had a lower TFI Herbicide than the COM and only for the first 3-year period (0.31 vs. 1.24, respectively). TFI Fungicide of the prototypes did not differ significantly from that of the COM for both 3-year periods (0.52 vs. 0.65, respectively). Cover crops had no effect on TFI, TFI Herbicide , or TFI Fungicide , regardless of the cropping system. N fertilizer inputs depended greatly on the prototype and did not differ significantly between the two 3-year periods for any of the cropping systems. Cover crops did not significantly reduce N fertilization. N fertilizer use was significantly lower in the VLI prototypes (49 and 51 kg N•ha -1 •yr -1 for VLI_CM(_CC) and VLI_SM(_CC), respectively, averaging the two 3-year periods) than in the LI prototypes, which did not differ significantly from the COM (98 and 99 kg N•ha -1 •yr -1 , respectively). Toxicity to human health was significantly lower for all prototypes than that of the COM when averaging the two 3-year periods (0.75 vs. 1.29, respectively), except for VLI_ CM(_CC), for which it was lower for the first 3-year period (0.67) than for the second one (1.22). Labor time did not differ significantly between the two 3-year periods for any of the cropping systems. Averaging the two 3-year periods, labor time did not differ significantly between the COM and the prototypes without cover crops, but the inclusion of cover crops in the prototypes increased significantly labor time (+ 1.0, + 2.2, and + 1.6 h•ha -1 •yr -1 for LI_CC, VLI_CM_CC, and VLI_SM_CC, respectively). While the mean TFI Herbicide of all prototypes was significantly lower than that of the COM, mechanical weed control increased proportionally compared to that of the COM (+ 3.4, + 3.4, and + 1.6 h•ha -1 •yr -1 for LI(_CC), VLI_ CM(_CC), and VLI_SM(_CC), respectively). 
 The type of cropping system had a significant effect on all agro-economic performance indicators, except operational costs and energy efficiency (Fig.  4 ; Table  3 ). The 3-year period had a major effect on the semi-net margin, gross income, operational costs, and energy efficiency. The semi-net margin decreased significantly between the first and the second 3-year periods only for VLI_SM(_CC) (545 and 332 €•ha -1 •yr -1 , respectively) due to the first 3-year period crop's combination of (i) higher grain yields (4.3 vs. 3.5 t•ha -1 •yr -1 , respectively), (ii) lower operational costs (306 vs. 339 €•ha -1 •yr -1 , respectively), and (iii) lower mechanical costs (321 vs. 346 €•ha -1 •yr -1 , respectively). The mean semi-net margin of both 3-year periods was significantly higher for the COM than for the VLI_CM_CC and VLI_SM(_CC), and it tended to decrease as the diversification of the prototypes increased. Except for LI_CC, prototypes with cover crops did not have a significantly lower semi-net margin than those without cover crops (675 vs. 578 €•ha -1 •yr -1 , respectively), because there was no effect on yield (4.3 vs. 4.2 t•ha -1 •yr -1 , respectively), even though mechanical costs were higher (292 vs. 344 €•ha -1 •yr -1 , respectively). Operational costs did not differ significantly between all prototypes and the COM (310 vs. 348 €•ha -1 •yr -1 ), nor between prototypes with or without cover crops (328 vs. 292 €•ha -1 •yr -1 , respectively). Conversely, mechanical costs were significantly lower for the COM than the prototypes (234 vs. 318 €•ha -1 •yr -1 , respectively), except for VLI_CM. For a given prototype, mechanical costs increased significantly with cover crops (+ 28, + 76, and + 54 €•ha -1 •yr -1 for LI_CC, VLI_CM_CC, and VLI_SM_CC, respectively), since they were destroyed mechanically. Energy efficiency did not differ significantly between the two 3-year periods, except for VLI_SM. Unlike other indicators, energy efficiency did not differ significantly between all prototypes and the COM, and cover crops had no effect on it. 
 
 In order to evaluate the representativeness of our experimental practices, the performances of the common 2-year durum wheat/sunflower cropping system (COM) cropped in  8.0 ± 3.8; a 7.3 ± 3.4; a 6.7 ± 3.0; a 7.9 ± 3.1; a 6.6 ± 2.3; a 7.5 ± 3.2; a 6.6 ± 3.1; a ns our experiment can be compared to local farmers' practices using public mandatory surveys performed by statistical services of the French Ministry of Agriculture for southwestern France (Agreste 2017). These surveys are a major tool for describing farmers' practices, calculating the profitability of actual farming systems, studying the impact of agricultural on the environment, and assessing their sustainability. Except for labor time (8 vs. 6 h•ha -1 ), the COM had better performance indicators than the farmer's practices. The higher labor time in the COM is certainly due to more time dedicated to field observation at the basis of decision rules' practice but also to the fact that all working time is registered, even the time to prepare on-field operations, which is not necessarily the case when in farmers' answers to the public survey. Thereby, the TFI of the COM was 37% lower than that of local farmers, due mainly to a smaller amount of fungicides (51% less), indicating a general more adjusted use of pesticides in the experiment. Finally, due to lower operational (348 vs. 431 € ha -1 •yr -1 ) and mechanical costs (234 vs. 291 € ha -1 •yr -1 ) and higher grain yield (4.7 vs. 4.1 t•ha -1 •yr -1 ), the COM had finally a higher gross income (1256 vs. 1074 €•ha -1 •yr -1 ) and then a semi-net margin 50% higher than the average value given by the farmers' survey. This overperforming of the COM on the INRAE research station compared to farmer's practices is probably due to a better soil than that of many farmers who often grow sunflower on sloped clay soils with lower agronomic potential. Nevertheless, such a difference indicates that our COM was quite well-managed compared to the average performance obtained by local farmers. This is notably due to the time dedicated to observations and decisions and more opportunities to do the field operations in due time and at an optimal rate. In any case, this suggests that some improvements are still possible for farmers who currently grow these two crops in this region, despite the continuous technical progress in cropping practices and input-use efficiency that they benefited with the accompaniment of agricultural advisors. 
 Grain yield of sunflower and durum wheat in the prototypes did not differ significantly from that of the COM except in the VLI_SM(_CC) prototypes due to lower densities in the mixtures and interspecific competition with the associated crop. However, by diversifying the crop rotation in the prototypes from two to three species, sunflower and durum wheat covered only 33% of the surface area (compared to 50% for the COM). Therefore, the prototypes produced less sunflower and durum wheat per year than the COM. To avoid disrupting the organization of the current agrifood chain, cropping systems must be redesigned at the scales of regions, and the entire agrifood chain and a transition phase must be organized in order to accompany the ecological intensification of agriculture  
 For most indicators and for both 2-year durum wheat/ sunflower rotation (COM) and prototypes, the 3-year period had a strong effect, as highlighted in several studies, with weather being a predominant factor  
 The objective of reducing pesticide use by 50% compared to the COM was met for the LI(_CC) prototypes (44% of the COM), almost for VLI_SM(_CC) (61% of the COM) but not for VLI_CM(_CC) (82% the COM), with less toxic pesticides applied in most prototypes than in the COM. The reduction in both the quantities applied and the number of toxic pesticides on some prototypes should lead to a reduction in environmental, biodiversity, and health impacts  The experiment also highlighted that introducing cover crops during the fallow period increased labor time due to sowing and mechanical destruction of the cover crops without allowing the decrease of herbicide use. However, according to the combination of multiple meta-analyses performed by  Similarly, several agronomic practices were applied to reduce fungicide use, but the crop species chosen for diversification are crucial  
 The objectives were to reduce N fertilizer use by 25% for the LI(_CC) prototypes and by 50% for all VLI prototypes, compared to the COM. These objectives were met by the VLI_CM(_CC) and VLI_SM(_CC) prototypes (49% and 51% of the COM, respectively), while the LI(_CC) prototypes required the same amount of N fertilizer than the COM. Four strategies were applied to reduce N fertilizer use in the prototypes: • The first strategy was to introduce low N demanding crops, such as sorghum for the LI(_CC) prototypes. Indeed, sorghum requires moderate N per unit of grain produced lying between those of durum wheat and sunflower and has a high yield potential in deep soils even in rainfed conditions. However, our initial objective was too ambitious when choosing sorghum and not compatible with the economic objectives of these prototypes (Section 4.4). • The second strategy was to introduce grain legumes which do not require N fertilizers allowing to reduce N use by at least 33% in the VLI_CM prototypes because the legume represented one-third of the cash crops grown but also by decreasing N fertilizer use for the next wheat crop (71% the durum wheat COM). The same strategy was used in the VLI_SM(_CC) with the presence of a grain legume in all mixtures allowing a greater decrease of N fertilizer notably on durum wheat-winter pea mixture (48% of the of the durum wheat COM) even if a further reduction does not seem conceivable since it would decrease cereal grain production and quality too much (Bedoussac and Justes 2010). • The third strategy was to reduce N fertilizer use for wheat and, to a lesser extent, sunflower by (i) setting slightly lower grain yield objectives for the prototypes than for the COM and (ii) improving N fertilization management by adapting the amount of N fertilizer to crop needs  Although cover crops effectively capture nitrate, they did not always reduce N fertilizer use for the following crop in the prototypes. N fertilizer use even slightly increased in VLI_CM_CC for durum wheat (+ 21% more than VLI_CM) to counter the preemptive effect of buried cover crop residues on soil mineral N in a dry winter without nitrate leaching and to decrease its potential negative impacts on the following crop (Thorup-Kristensen and Dresboll 2010). This lack of decrease in N fertilizer use when using cover crops was explained mainly by the following: • Dry winters, which resulted in a low level of nitrate leaching. No significant drainage and leaching occurred for 3 of the 6 years, as calculated with water and N balances. Even COM keeping bare soil during fallow periods leached little nitrate due to these dry conditions. • Low cover crop biomass due to limited precipitation and early destruction to avoid preemptive competition for water  
 The objectives for the semi-net margin for the LI(_CC), VLI_CM(_CC), and VLI_SM(_CC) prototypes (100%, 90%, and 85% of the COM, respectively) were not met, notably because of the very challenging target for the comparison of the prototypes. Indeed, the COM already appears to be optimized with respect to the regional on-farm durum wheat/sunflower rotation. Conversely, the comparison of the performance of the prototypes with that of the farmers' practices reveals the margins of progress in terms of management, profitability, and environment issues that farmers could obtain by adopting more diversified systems. Since crop prices and subsidies of each cash crop were the same over the 6 years, the lower semi-net margin of the prototypes compared to the COM was mainly due to a decrease in gross income and an increase in mechanical costs. We certainly did not adequately configure the lowinput cropping systems due to a lack of knowledge and technical know-how, especially about species mixtures. The technical practices applied and decision rules used to adapt the agricultural practices were not based on long technical experience. Although the practices and decision rules were well controlled and managed in the COM, those in the lowinput prototypes clearly required a learning process. In any case, this suggests that a potential exists to redesign efficient and profitable innovative cropping systems that depend less on chemical pesticides and can be used to build a more biodiversified agriculture as a pathway in the agroecological transition  
 Designing cropping systems that combine the agronomic practices tested in the prototypes may improve their performances. During the co-design workshops, the choice of certain practices was done to discriminate prototypes and create a gradient of diversification. Thus, some prototypes included mainly cultivar mixtures, others species mixtures, and half of them cover crops, which resulted in different performances. The results allowed us to assess the ability to combine practices to mitigate certain poor performances while maintaining the decrease of inputs. Among others, we identified ways to improve the economic performances of low-input cropping systems: • Introduce high added-value crops into the cropping system. In both the LI(_CC) and VLI_CM(_CC) pro- totypes, sorghum and faba bean had a lower selling price than the durum wheat and sunflower in the COM. The high yield of sorghum did not compensate for its low price, whereas faba bean's low yield increased its economic performance. We then suggest diversifying with crops for human consumption (e.g., lentil, chickpea) or special crops under contract (e.g., waxy maize or "health food" crops such as chia, buckwheat, and quinoa) that provide high gross income. • Switching to organic farming. Given the low levels of pesticides and N fertilizers used in some prototypes, it may be possible to go further and stop using pesticides to switch production to organic farming and get the higher prices of products. • Develop and improve techniques for sowing and separating species mixtures. Species mixtures increased mechanical costs greatly, such as for the sunflowersoybean or soft wheat-faba bean mixtures that combined two harvest and two sowing operations, respectively. Moreover, grains from the soft wheat-faba bean and durum wheat-pea mixtures were sold mixed for animal feed and thus had a low selling price, while sorting the grains would result in higher prices. Recent improvements in agricultural machinery for sowing, separating, and cleaning grains at low cost could solve this point. However, there is no solution to prevent the two harvests for the sunflower-soybean mixture. • Develop and improve multi-service cover crops. Further reduction in herbicide use would require more productive cover crops capable of providing a greater weed control in the succeeding cash crops  
 Agronomists and farmers have long discussed the principles of diversifying species in time and space and their ability to improve agricultural sustainability. However, these principles are rarely applied in current cereal-based conventional systems in Europe due to many well-known agronomic, economic, and commercial considerations and technological lock-ins. To significantly reduce the use of chemical inputs and replace them with multiple ecosystem services, the challenge is to design profitable but sustainable arable cropping systems based on high diversification of species. Our experimental study demonstrated that this was technically feasible but also highlighted that several factors and management practices still need to be optimized to achieve the same profitability as the current 2-year cropping system of sunflower and durum wheat. European Union and national policy frameworks do not support low-input agriculture sufficiently, especially by ignoring negative externalities, which strongly reinforces the higher apparent profitability of highinput conventional agriculture. From technical and agronomic viewpoints, many practices can reduce the use of pesticides and N fertilizers. However, we found that innovative cropping systems that replaced certain chemical inputs with technical practices were less productive. In particular, combining mechanical weeding, disease-tolerant cultivars, and reduced N fertilization only partially reduced the damage caused by pathogens in our study's soil and weather conditions. Using a combination of techniques effectively is more difficult because the effects of each technique are partial and preventative, which often leads to incomplete control of pests and diseases than when curative treatments are used. This emphasizes that more scientific and technical efforts are needed to decrease yield losses when pesticides are not used. For a broader scope, such a system approach will have to be extended by modeling. The diversification gradient tested here, both in time with longer rotations and inclusion of multi-service cover crops and in space with mixtures of cultivars and/or species, indicates that the first one is the simplest and most cost-effective way to diversify during a transitional phase. Diversification in space requires additional research to optimize the mixtures of cultivars and/or species to achieve the same profitability as that in conventional agriculture. Targeting niche markets of high-priced species to compensate for lower yields in low-input systems is a key option for designing innovative cropping systems with acceptable profitability. This is also true for species mixtures, which must be designed for human consumption and not for low-cost animal feed. Finally, this agroecology paradigm, based on highly diversified agriculture, demonstrates the potential of certain sets of agronomic solutions and encourages researchers, advisors, and farmers to work together to design cropping systems that are adapted to local conditions. It implies considering agricultural production and diversification at the regional scale, since they will influence the logistics and organization of the entire agrifood chain. Reorienting subsidies and rethinking the agrifood system as a whole to return added value to farmers engaged in the agroecological transition is necessary to support the economic value of crop diversification and encourage the transition to low-input cropping systems.
Sugarcane cultivation was introduced in Brazil since the colonial period (between the XVI and XIX centuries) and presents a highlight position in the national economy due to the planted area, nine million hectares  However, sugarcane monoculture, intensive soil tillage, and machinery in-field traffic lead to accelerated soil physical degradation. Conversely, the use of conservation management systems, such as minimum tillage and no-tillage, can help maintaining soil productivity since crop residues are left on the soil surface under both systems, and tillage is minimal and/or restricted to planting rows. Moreover, both systems emphasize the use of cover crop, which improve soil quality conditions. Some soil physical properties, such as bulk density, porosity, penetration resistance and available water are used to characterize soil physical status and to assess the effectiveness of different management systems. Soil physical properties evaluated individually, however, cannot fully explain changes of soil physical conditions-as it can be obtained by a combination of a certain number of them  In an attempt to integrate and simplify monitoring of soil physical quality, various authors have used the least limiting water range (LLWR) as an indicator of soil structural quality  The S index, defined as the slope of soil water retention curve at its inflection point, is directly related to microstructural porosity of soil. It expresses direct effects of soil management system on soil compaction, soil organic matter and root growth. Therefore, more structural pores are associated with higher S index, which is a desirable trait of a good soil  Many studies have demonstrated the efficiency of the LLWR and the S index to assess soil physical quality  We hypothesized that the adoption of cover crop together with minimum tillage during the sugarcane crop reformation period can improve soil physical indicators compared to conventional tillage system with fallow. Therefore, the objective of the study was to assess the impact of cover crop and tillage systems on the LLWR and the S index in two soils of different textures used for sugarcane production. 
 
 The experiment was carried out in Iracema sugarcane mill, and Santa Fé sugarcane mill, located in Iracemápolis and Nova Europa in the state of São Paulo, respectively. The sites were chosen because the mills are under different edaphoclimatic conditions (Table  1 ). The soil of Iracema mill was classified as a Rhodic Hapludox  
 For the planting of the cover plant, it was used Crotalaria juncea (sunn hemp), IAC KR1, at the dose of 25 kg ha -1 , seeded in rows, spaced every 0.5 m (Table  1 ). The fallow area, during the development of the cover crop, was subject to twinning of spontaneous species, which was supported by the "seed bank" present in the area. During the sugarcane planting in the clayey soil, it was 36, 69 and 69 kg ha -1 of the N-P-K, respectively. In he medium-textured soil, 25, 125 and 115 kg ha -1 of the N-P-K were respectively applied in the planting furrows based on the soil analysis performed prior to the experiment installation. In both areas, the sunn hemp was desiccated and cutting at 0.05 m height. In the clayey soil area this operation was carried out by a tractor Case, model MXM 4 × 4, 110 kW and a strimmers Agritecha. In the medium-textured soil, a tractor Massey Ferguson, model Advanced 275 4 × 2, 202 kW and a strimmers Agritecha were used. The same treatments were implanted in both areas. For the clayey soil, the conventional tillage plots were prepared through two light harrows using a 36-disc hydraulic grid from Baldan and tractor Case, model MXM, 147 kW and, furrowing at 0.30 m depth using a tractor Valtra, model BH 180 4 × 4, 134 kW and a furrow Driade of two lines. In the medium-textured soil, the equipment'sharrow Santa Izabel with 44-disc and a tractor Valtra, model BT 210 4 × 4, 154 kW. In the plots of minimum tillage, both clayey and medium-textured soil, only the furrowing at 0.30 m depth occurred in which it was used the same equipment used in conventional tillage in each of the respective sites. For the planting of sugarcane, the stalks were distributed manually in the planting furrows, cut into smaller pieces and later with the aid of a machine, the planting furrows were covered. In the clayey soil was used cover machine of two lines and a tractor Massey Ferguson, model Advanced 275 4 × 2, 202 kW. In the medium-textured soil, was used cover machine DMB also two lines and a tractor New Holland, model TL85E, 65 kWv to cover the planting furrow. 
 The experimental design is a split-plot with randomized blocks in which the main factor corresponded to the soil cover vegetation: cover crop and fallow whereas second factor was tillage system: conventional tillage and minimum tillage. In this way, the following treatments combinations were analyzed in this study: i) cover crop with conventional tillage (CCCT); ii) fallow with conventional tillage (FCT); iii) cover crop with minimum tillage (CCMT); iv) fallow with minimum tillage (FMT). Overall, the experimental area consisted of 16 experimental plots i.e. 4 treatments × 4 replications. Each plot consisted of 15 sugarcane rows. Rows were 34 m long and 1.5 m between consecutive rows. Both sites received the same treatments whereby plots with conventional tillage were made with double harrowing (0.40 m depth) and furrowing (0.30 m depth), and plots with minimum tillage were only furrowed. Sugarcane planting was carried out manually in both experimental sites. Data regarding sunn hemp planting and desiccation, dry-matter (DM) production, sugarcane planting date, fertilization and sugarcane variety are presented in Table  1 . Note. CWa= humid temperate; Aw = megathermal or tropical wet. The experiments started with mechanical elimination of the ratoons and subsoiling to a depth of 0.40 m. Subsoiling was necessary because a compacted layer was detected in the profile, which could have limited root growth in the subsequent cycle. The experiment on clayey soil started in 2013 and on medium-textured soil in 2014, and both sites were collected soil samples at the beginning of the experiment, to characterize the physical attributes of the area (Table  2 ). Table  2 . Physical properties of soils collected from clayey soil site and medium-textured soil site before the experiment   Depth Sand Silt Clay Mac Mic Bd PR θ -----------m -------------------------g kg -1 ------------------------m 3 m -3 ------------Mg m -3 ----MPa ---m 3 m -3 - 
 At 90 days after planting of sugarcane undisturbed soil samples were collected at different depths i.e. 0.00-0.10, 0.10-0.20, 0.20-0.40 m, for the assessment of LLWR and S index. Stainless steel rings were used with average diameter and height of 0.045 and 0.050 m, respectively, making an average volume of 88 cm -3 . These samples were saturated by water through gradual increase of water level until two-thirds of the ring height, and the weight of saturated samples were recorded. Then, the samples were submitted to the following matric potentials: -0.002, -0.008, -0.010 MPa in the tension table; and -0.033, -0.100, -0.500, -1.0, and -1.5 MPa in Richard's chamber with porous plates  Finally, the samples were oven-dried at about 105 °C for 24 hours, until constant weight was reached. Soil volumetric water content was determined as the ratio of the volume of water removed from the sample in each tension over soil volume of each sample. Bulk density was determined as the weight of dry soil divided by the total ring volume  Intermediary values needed to estimate LLWR were(i) soil moisture at field capacity (θ FC ), (ii) soil moisture at permanent wilting point (θ PWP ), (iii) soil moisture at 0.10 m 3 m -3 air-filled porosity (θ AP ) was, and (iv) soil moisture at 2.5 MPa soil penetration resistance (θ PR ) as proposed by  The soil penetration resistance (PR) curve was fitted using the non-linear model recommended by  1 ). The volumetric moisture was obtained by  PR = a•Bd b •θ c (1) where, PR is the soil penetration resistance (MPa); Bd is the soil bulk density (Mg m -3 ); θ represents the volumetric water content (m 3 m -3 ); and a, b and c represent the coefficients of the model. The functional relation between the matric potential and volumetric water content, considering the soil moisture at field capacity (matric potential of -0.01 MPa) and at permanent wilting point (matric potential of -1.5 MPa), was fitted to the model proposed by  2 : θ = exp d + e•Bd • ψ f (2) where, θ is the volumetric water content (m 3 m -3 ), ψ is the matric potential (MPa); Bd is the soil bulk density (Mg m -3 ); d, e and f represent the coefficients of the model. θ AP was the difference between the volumetric water content at saturation and the air-filled porosity of 0.10 m 3 m -3 , taken as restrictive to the plant growth using Equation  3 : θ AP = TP -0.1 (3) where, θ AP is the volumetric water content (m 3 m -3 ) for an aeration porosity of 0.10 m 3 m -3 ; TP is the total porosity (m 3 m -3 ) as described by  The method described by  The S index was calculated using Equation  4 , which was formulated by  S = -n θsat -θres 1 + 1 m -1 + m (4) where, S is the value of the slope of the soil water retention curve at its inflection point; θres is the residual water content (m 3 m -3 ); θsat is the saturated water content (m 3 m -3 ); m and n represent empirical parameters of the equation. jas.ccsenet. 
 The adjust performed 2004). 
 
 The  The critical limits of the LLWR for studied soils are shown in Figure  1 . The values of critical limits used in this study were as follows: field capacity = -0.010 MPa, permanent wilting point = -1.5 MPa, aeration porosity = 0.10 m -3 m -3 and penetration resistance = 2.5 MPa, in which the hatched area corresponds to the LLWR. Each soil showed different range of the LLWR, which was due to different soil texture. Soils with higher clay content are characterized by higher water retention due to the aggregation of clay particles: intra-aggregate pores increase the volume of pore space, mainly pores with reduced diameter  For the clayey soil, the lower limit was determined by θ PR and the upper limit by θ FC , up to Bd = 1.13 Mg m -3 . Thereafter, the upper limit of the LLWR for this soil was determined by θ AP . These results demonstrate that up to 1.13 Mg m -3 the soil structure is appropriate. However, for Bd equal or higher than 1.13 Mg m -3 , problems related to anoxia triggered by degradation of soil structure can be expected. Our results corroborate those found by  It was also observed in Figure  1  that an increase in Bd correlated positively with θ PR and negatively with θ AP in clayey soil, indicating that an increase in Bd decreased the LLWR as a function of both the upper limit and lower limit. In addition, for the medium-textured soil, only θ PR (the lower limit) and θ FC (the upper limit) were the limiting variables responsible for restricting the LLWR. The role of θ PR as the lower limit of the LLWR can be observed for both studied soils, hence demonstrating its direct effect on soil physical properties. High θ PR restricts the range of water availability for root growth and development. These results are aligned with previous studies that indicated that θ PR is the main variable associated with the reduction of soil physical quality resulting in a reduction of LLWR  The LLWR ranged from 0.00 to 0.124 m 3 m -3 for the clayey soil and from 0.00 to 0.040 m 3 m -3 for the medium-textured soil (Figure  2 ). This range is in the same order of magnitude of studies performed in tropical conditions in Brazil. For example,  Soil Bd c was found to be 1.18 and 1.65Mg m -3 for clayey and medium-textured soils, respectively. Values of Bd c higher than these probably present limiting conditions to plant development despite the water content in the soil due to structural restrictions. Guimarães Júnnyor et al. (  2015 ) evaluated physical quality of a oxisol (clay 44%) and found Bd c of 1.36 Mg m -3 . According to  However, in the clayey soil Bd was lower than Bd c for all treatments, thus demonstrating good soil structure (Figure  2 ). The treatment MTCC stood out because it had lower Bd, so more soil micropores, and consequently wider LLWR. On the other hand, the MTF presented higher Bd and narrower LLWR. These results demonstrate a positive effect of cover crop on the LLWR during sugarcane replanting. Traditionally, no-tillage and minimum tillage systems demonstrate limitations related to superficial soil compaction due to natural arrangement of particles and in-field machinery traffic  
 In the med Mg m -3 ). T treatments developme species wh compactio conditions confirms th
Brazil is the largest sugarcane producer, accounting for 41 % of global production in 2017  Sugarcane is traditionally cultivated under conventional tillage (using plowing and harrowing) in Brazil, involving intense disaggregation on soil in the layer of 0.00-0.40 m, which leads to substantial soil carbon losses  Mechanical management practices, such as plowing and subsoiling, are commonly used by farmers to instantly alleviate soil compaction  Deep subsoiling temporarily benefits soil physical quality  Conservation practices, such as no-tillage or minimal tillage systems, characterized by the absence or minimal soil mobilization associated with crop residue retention and crop rotation (i.e., mainly with cover crops), are promising strategies to mitigate soil degradation in sugarcane field  Several studies highlight the importance of monitoring physical quality throughout the sugarcane cultivation cycle, either by a general index of soil's physical quality  In this context, the following question remains: the adoption of crop rotation, including cover crops before sugarcane cultivation, could attenuate the negative impacts of soil tillage or even enhance soil physical quality? We hypothesized that cover crop cultivation coupled with conservation tillage practices before sugarcane planting is an efficient management strategy to attenuate soil physical degradation and increase stalk yield of sugarcane, compared to the traditional system (i.e., bare soil and conventional tillage). To test this hypothesis, a field study was carried out to evaluate the effects of cover crop systems and soil tillage practices before sugarcane planting on soil's physical quality and stalk yield of sugarcane. 
 
 The study was conducted in an experimental area located at the Santa Fé sugarcane mill (municipality of Ibitinga, São Paulo, Brazil) (21° 50' 6.03" S, 48° 52' 30.00" W, 455 m a.s.l.) (Figure  1 ). Regional climate is classified as tropical wet and dry (Aw) according to the Köppen climate classification system  The soil was classified as Ultisols [Udults] (USDA, 2014) and as Argissolo Vermelho Distrófico típico according to the Brazilian Soil Classification System  The study area had been cultivated with pasture (Brachiaria sp.) for about 11 years. In 2014, a physical soil characterization was performed before converting the area from pasture to a sugarcane field. Soil characterization can be observed in table 1. At the time of conversion, soil acidity was neutralized by liming, 2.0 Mg ha -1 of dolomitic limestone (effective neutralizing power = 85 %) incorporated by heavy (0.00-0.40 m) and light (0.20 m) harrowing. In December 2014, three cover crops (sunn hemp, sorghum and millet) and one cash crop (peanut) were sown. Sunn hemp (Crotalaria juncea) and sorghum (Sorghum bicolor L.) were sown with a no-tillage seeder using 25 and 10 kg ha -1 of seeds, respectively. Peanut (Arachis hypogaea L.) was sown with a four-row seeder using 110 kg ha -1 of seeds. In contrast, the seeding of millet (Pennisetum glaucum L.) occurred manually, in rows using a manual furrower and 18 kg ha -1 of seeds. Rev Bras Cienc Solo 2022;46:e0210123 During flowering, cover crops were sampled (two square meters per plot) by cutting plants close to the soil surface to quantify biomass production. The samples were oven-dried at 65 °C for 72 h and then weighted. Biomass production averaged 5, 10, 11 and 21 Mg ha -1 (dry mass) for peanut, sunn hemp, millet, and sorghum, respectively. After sampling, plants of sunn hemp, millet and sorghum were managed (desiccation) applying the dose of 200 L ha -1 of syrup made with 6 L ha -1 of glyphosate, plus 70 mL ha -1 of Aurora, and 1 L ha -1 of mineral oil. The plants were mechanically harvested for the peanut crop with a Sweere Double Master V peanut harvester pulled by a Massey Fergusson model 7140 tractor, with a power rating of 104 kW. Planting of sugarcane occurred mechanically in April 2015 with the CTC 4 variety of sugarcane. On this occasion, fertilization for plantation occurred with the application of  300 kg ha -1 of N-P-K fertilizer (10-51-00). In plots without cover crops (control), the soil tillage was carried out using two light-disk harrowings. In addition, another three soil tillage practices were carried out: (i) no-tillage (NT); (ii) minimum tillage with subsoiling to 0.40 m depth (MT); and (iii) minimum tillage with deep subsoiling to 0.70 m depth (MT/DS). For the first, no soil tillage was carried out before sugarcane plating. For (ii) and (iii), the operations were carried out using a five-shank subsoiler at different operating depths. The chronological order of events that occurred in the study area is shown in figure  2 . 
 Experimental design was in split-block, with three replications, in which four species of cover crops (e.g., sunn hemp, millet, sorghum and peanut) were planted in one direction and the three tillage systems [e.g., no-tillage (NT); minimum tillage (MT); and minimum tillage with deep subsoiling (MT/DS)], were performed in the opposite direction adopted for cover crops. In addition, a control treatment was left without cover crop (bare soil) and under conventional tillage (CT). Each plot had six rows of sugarcane, with a spacing of 1.5 and 30 m in length, totaling an area of 300 m 2 per plot. 
 When the cover crops reached the point of maximum flowering, we performed a plant sampling to analyze dry mass production (DM) in an area of two square meters per plot, in which the plants were cut near the soil. Subsequently, the samples were dried at 65 °C for 72 h, weighed, and the results were expressed in Mg ha -1 . For the analysis of the nutrients accumulated by the cover crops, samples of aboveground biomass were ground, and the contents of P, K, Ca and Mg were determined according to  
 Soil samplings were carried out before harvesting the plant-cane production cycle (harvest 2015/16) and just after harvesting the first ratoon cycle (harvest 2016/17). The samples were collected in the inter-row down to 0.70 m depth, subdivided into the 0.00-0.05, 0.05-0.10, 0.10-0.20, 0.20-0.30 and 0.30-0.70 m layers. Subsequently, to improve the interpretation of the results, the results were grouped according to the soil horizons, that is, A (0.00-0.20 m), AB (0.20-0.30 m), and Bt (0.30-0.70 m). Rev Bras Cienc Solo 2022;46:e0210123 Soil particle-size analysis was performed as established by  TP = 1 - BD Pd Eq. 1 in which: TP is the total porosity; BD is the bulk density; and Pd is the particle density. Maximum bulk density (kg dm -3 ) (BD max) was estimated by a pedotransfer equation (Equation  2 ) as described by  BD max = 2.03133855 -(0.00320878 × SOM) -(0.00076508 × clay) Eq. 2 DC = × 100 BD BD max Eq. 3 in which: BD max is the maximum bulk density; SOM is the soil organic matter; DC is the degree of compactness; and BD is the bulk density. Mean weight-diameter (MWD) of soil aggregates (mm) was determined using the wet-sieving method as proposed by  4 was used to calculate the MWD: MWD = ∑ n i = 1 (xi × wi) Eq. 4 in which: xi is the average diameter of the classes (mm) and wi is the fraction of each class regarding the total. Soil resistance to penetration (SRP) measurements are highly dependent on soil water content, and this relationship can induce errors in the interpretation of the soil compaction state between different treatments. Therefore, SRP was determined in the laboratory under controlled soil water content conditions aiming to reduce those effects. For this, the undisturbed samples were placed under the tension table and equilibrate at a tension of 0.006 MPa following the methodology described by  The SRP was determined using the equipment MA model 933 electronic penetrometer (MARCONI ® ) with a 4 mm tip and a constant penetration speed of 10 mm s -1 , according to the procedures performed by  Soil total carbon (C) content was determined according to the methodology proposed by  
 The Dunnett test determined differences among treatment groups (cover crops and tillage) and the control at the 0.05 level of significance, implemented in the Minitab 19 software. Radar graphs were elaborated to obtain a better interpretation of the results. The average values of the soil physical properties were normalized into a unitless scale ranging from 0 (worse) to 1 (best soil physical quality). Linear scoring techniques were used to transform the values of each property. Firstly, the soil physical properties were ranked in ascending or descending order depending on whether a higher value was considered "good" or "bad" in terms of its physical quality. Bulk density and SRP followed the "less is better" scoring curve, where the lowest observed value (in the numerator) was divided by each observation (in the denominator) such that the lowest observed value received the score 1. The indicators MaP, MiP and MWD followed the "more is better" scoring curve, in which each observation was divided by the highest observed value such that the highest observed value received the score 1. More information on linear transformation can be obtained from  
 
 Sorghum was the cover crop that produced the largest amount of dry matter (DM) (21 Mg ha -1 ), with a C:N ratio of 28. Sunn hemp and millet presented intermediate DM production (11 and 10 Mg ha -1 , respectively). However, with distinct C:N ratio values, corresponding to 13 and 48, respectively. Peanut was the cover crop that resulted in the lowest DM production (5 Mg ha -1 ), associated with a C:N ratio of 15 (Table  2 ). Sorghum was by far the cover crop with the highest potential for C input to the soil, with an average content of 10 Mg ha -1 , followed by sunn hemp (5 Mg ha -1 ), millet (4.5 Mg ha -1 ) and peanut (2 Mg ha -1 ). The sorghum and sunn hemp were the cover crops that reached the largest N, K and Ca contents, in which they were accumulated 350 kg ha -1 of N, 319 kg ha -1 of K and 95 kg ha -1 of Ca by sorghum. While sunn hemp accumulated 413 kg ha -1 of N, 259 kg ha -1 of K and 109 kg ha -1 of Ca. Sorghum also had higher accumulations of P (40 kg ha -1 ) and Mg (85 kg ha -1 ) (Table  2 ).  
 On horizon A, during the plant cane cycle, the use of sunn hemp with MT (BD = 1.54 kg dm -3 ) and MT/DS (BD = 1.56 kg dm -3 ) and, during the first ratoon cane cycle, the management systems with sunn hemp and NT (BD = 1.68 kg dm -3 ) and MT (BD = 1.72 kg dm -3 ), induced values of BD significantly lower (p<0.05) than the control treatment (plant cane -BD = 1.69 kg dm -3 ; first ratoon cane -BD = 1.82 kg dm -3 ) (Figure  3 ). On the other hand, in the AB horizon, the use of cover crops with greater root exploration capacity, such as millet and sorghum, combined with soil tillage systems MT and MT/DS, reduced significantly (p<0.05) the BD regarding the control treatment. In-depth, at the Bt horizon, the management systems did not induce significant changes (p<0.05) regarding the conventional system (control) for the cultivation cycle of the plant cane. However, after the machine traffic and harvest operations, the treatments that used peanuts and NT (BD = 1.77 kg dm -3 ) and MT/DS (BD = 1.76 kg dm -3 ) presented BD significantly higher (p<0.05) than the control treatment (BD = 1.60 kg dm -3 ) (Figure  3 ). In general, there was an average increase of 10 % in the BD values in the horizon A, between the production cycles of cane plant and first ratoon cane, reflecting the effect of two sequential harvests (Figure  3 ). These results are also supported by the DC (degree of compactness) shown in table 2. We observed that for horizon A, only the control treatment  indicated soil compaction (DC >90 %) during the production cycle of plant cane. However, between the production cycles of cane plant and first ratoon, all treatments presented soil compaction, except for treatment sunn hemp with NT, that besides to not showing compaction, it also provided a significantly lower (p<0.05) DC than the control treatment. In addition, we note the high levels of soil compaction in the Bt horizon, achieved by the treatments that combined peanuts with NT and MT/DS (101 and 100 %, respectively). This result contributed to these treatments to present compaction significantly higher (p<0.05) than the control treatment (Table  3 ). In general, during the plant cane cycle, the treatments showed a high amount of MaP (Figure  4 ). However, between the plant cane and first ratoon cycles, we observed a negative effect of the machine traffic during the sugarcane harvest, where there was a considerable reduction in MaP, the order of 69, 58 and 50 % for A, AB and Bt horizons, respectively. However, even in restrictive conditions, we observed that some treatments, during the first ratoon cane cycle, showed MaP values significantly higher (p<0.05) than the control treatment (0.05 m 3 m -3 ), such as peanut with MT/DS (0.08 m 3 m -3 ), sunn hemp with MT/DS (0.07 m 3 m -3 ), in A horizon and sunn hemp with MT/DS (0.11 m 3 m -3 ) in Bt horizon. Machine traffic between the plant cane and first ratoon cane cycles also induced an increase in MiP, with values on average 25, 27 and 13 % higher for the A, AB and Bt horizons, respectively (Figure  4 ). Furthermore, for horizon A, during the first ratoon cane cycle, the use of sunn hemp with NT (0.33 m 3 m -3 ) and MT (0.32 m 3 m -3 ) provided values significantly higher (p<0.05) than the control treatment (0.29 m 3 m -3 ). Regarding the Soil Resistance to Penetretion (SRP), in general, there was also an increase in this property between the plant cane and first ratoon cane cycles, mainly in the top layer (Table  4 ). On horizon A, during the cane plant cycle, regardless of the cover crop, the use of MT and MT/DS reduced significantly (p<0.05) the SRP compared to control treatment. After the harvest of the first ratoon cane cycle, the use of peanuts and sunn hemp with NT (1.82 and 1.15 MPa, respectively), sunn hemp with MT (1.72 MPa), and peanuts and millet with MT/DS (1.29 and 1.73 MPa, respectively), showed values significantly lower (p<0.05) of SRP when compared to the control treatment. For the AB horizon, during the plant cane cycle, the use of peanuts and sorghum, both with MT/DS, presented significantly lower (p<0.05) SRP than the control treatment and, during the first ratoon cane cycle, the treatments with NT using peanut, millet, and sorghum, peanut with MT, and peanut, sunn hemp, and millet with MT/DS stood out. Considering the Bt horizon, we observed that some combinations of cover crops and soil tillage systems were harmful to root penetration. This was caused since they induced higher SRP values than the control treatment, such as the combination of peanuts with NT (2.24 MPa) during the cane plant cycle and, millet and sorghum with NT (2.54 and 2.34 MPa, respectively) and MT/DS (1.98 and 2.25 MPa, respectively), during the first ratoon cane cycle. Regarding the mean weight-diameter (MWD) of aggregates, in general, in the top layer (horizons A and AB), during the plant cane cycle, the treatments induced greater aggregation compared with the control treatment (Figure  5 ). Furthermore, regardless of soil tillage system, we observed in horizon A that millet increased significantly (p<0.05) the MWD of the aggregates regarding the control. However, at the horizon Bt, there was a reduction of MWD regarding the control treatment, in which only the treatment using peanuts and NT was equal to this (Figure  5 ). We also observed, during the first ratoon cane cycle, that the use of millet with NT on horizon A (0.86 mm), millet with MT/DS on horizon B (0.78 mm), and peanut with MT (0.99 mm) resulted in MWD of the aggregates significantly larger (p<0.05) than the control. There was, in general, an increase in soil total carbon content between the plant cane and the first ratoon cane cycle (Table  5 ). It also should be noted that during the plant cane cycle, soil C increments were observed only in the top layer (A horizon), in which the treatments using sunn hemp with NT and millet with NT and MT/DS presented the higher C contents. In contrast, significant differences (p<0.05) occurred in deeper layers (AB horizon) in the first ratoon, in which millet associated with MT (8.62 g kg -1 ) presented a higher soil C content than the control (5.31 g kg -1 ). Thus, the conventional system (without cover crop combined with conventional tillage) induced higher values of BD and SRP, and low values of MaP and MWD. It also contributed to reducing soil physical quality in all horizons, except for the Bt horizon during the plant cane cycle, in which higher values of MiP, SRP and MWD were evidenced for this treatment (Figures  6  and 7 ). The use of sunn hemp before the cultivation of sugarcane was associated with higher values of MaP, MiP and SRP, and low values of BD. Alternatively, millet use induced an improvement in the BD, MaP, MiP and MWD of the soil aggregates. Furthermore, during the first ratoon cane cycle, we noticed a reduction in physical quality in all horizons and treatments, evidenced by low MaP (Figure  6 ). About the soil tillage system, MT and MT/DS use reduced the SRP and increased the MaP and MWD providing greater physical quality (Figure  7 ). 
 Regardless of the production cycle, there were no significant differences in the sugarcane yield between the management systems (cover crops + soil tillage) and the conventional system (control) by Dunnett's test (p<0.05) (Table  6 ). However, during the cane plant cycle, sorghum and MT/DS increased sugarcane yield by 15 Mg ha -1 regarding the conventional system. We also observed a decrease in the stalk yield of sugarcane for all treatments between the plant cane and first ratoon cane cycles. This decrease was more easily observed for the sorghum and MT/DS treatments, which presented an average sugarcane yield 10 % lower. On the other hand, higher sugarcane yields were observed  
 
 Our results reveal that the adoption of sunn hemp before planting of the sugarcane field induced higher porosity (MaP and MiP) associated with lower bulk density (BD) values (Figures  3, 4  and 6 ). These results are possibly a consequence of the high exploration of the sunn hemp root system that can grow even in compacted soil layers, contributing to the formation of biopores and improving soil physical conditions. For instance,  On the other hand, the use of grasses, such as millet, improved soil aggregation conditions. For the plant cane cycle, in A horizon, we observed that regardless of the soil tillage system, the millet increased significantly the MWD of the aggregates regarding the control. Similar results were reported by  Although millet is also considered a cover crop capable of breaking up compacted layers, it differs from sunn hemp in that it has a vigorous and abundant root system  Peanut as cover crop increased soil compaction, mainly when peanut cultivation is associated with NT and MT/DS (i.e., increased BD and DC, and reduced MaP). The peanut harvest process involves high soil disturbance as a result of the belowground growth of In medium-and large-scale crops, harvesting is mechanized and uses a piece of equipment (e.g., plant lifter) that penetrates the soil to a depth of approximately 0.05 m below the pods. Then, peanut plants are carried to the top of the running machine and fall on a device that groups them on the soil surface. After drying the pods in the field, another stage of the harvest takes place, which consists of gathering and Shaking the plants with a piece of equipment named picker-beater, which separates the pods of the plant  Despite the different management systems induce changes in the soil physical properties in our study, these modifications were not enough to generate significant differences in the stalk yield of sugarcane. Similar results were recently reported by  Cultivation of sorghum and sunn hemp, both with MT/DS, presented an expressive net gain in the stalk yield of sugarcane compared to the control treatment.  2019 ) and  Use of cover crops in sugarcane areas, however, has some specific characteristics. Since sugarcane is a semi-perennial crop, its cultivation occurs for five to six cycles in the area. After that period, the sugarcane fields are 'reformed' or replanted  Nevertheless, although the no-tillage system is a consolidated and widely accepted practice among Brazilian farmers, it is still little used in sugarcane cultivation  Some agricultural practices have shown promise to overcome the obstacles of using the no-tillage in sugarcane areas. For instance,  Deep subsoiling reduced soil SRP and increased MaP in relation to other tillage systems, evidencing to be one more option of conservation management for sugarcane management. These results agree with  Conventional tillage reduced the physical quality across all soil horizons, except for the Bt horizon during the plant cane cycle, which presented higher values of MiP and MWD. However, this result may be related to the formation of "plow pans" immediately below the plow layers typically reported in the subsoil of an area with conventional tillage  
 During the renovation of the sugarcane field, biological and mechanical management practices have been used to minimize problems related to soil compaction and Rev Bras Cienc Solo 2022;46:e0210123 physical degradation, including the cultivation of cover crops associated or not with plowing/subsoiling operations. However, we observed that independent of the cover crops or soil tillage, the particle rearrangement and soil reconsolidation due to alternate wetting and drying cycles, associated with machinery traffic during the sugarcane harvesting, caused to an increase in BD and DC, and reduction of MaP and MiP, indicating soil compaction. The machine traffic is one of the major causes of soil compaction, in which the stress imposed by the passage of machines causes damage to the soil's pores  Our measurements showed a reduction in MaP of about 69, 58 and 50 % for A, AB and Bt horizons, respectively, after the machine traffic and harvest operations. Similar results were observed by  Soil bulk density was close to 1.64 kg dm -3 to plant cane and 1.71 kg dm -3 to first ratoon cane, suggesting soil compaction between the production cycles. This effect is also evidenced by the DC property, in first ratoon cane all treatments presented soil compaction, except for sunn hemp with NT. This result agreed with that from  2015 ) also observed compaction due to the cumulative effect of machine traffic on the soil over the sugarcane cultivation cycles. Due to soil tillage and harvesting operations, problems related to soil disaggregation and compaction are usually inherent to sugarcane plantations  Although there is a continuous increase in organic carbon in the topsoil with the number of ratoon sugarcane harvests, resulting in better soil physical condition in the soil surface, the degree of compaction may increase due to the frequency of traffic caused by the increase in the number of harvests, becoming compaction more severe close to the sugarcane renovation  
 Although cover crops and less intensive soil tillage systems improve the soil physical quality compared to conventional tillage, these practices are only partially effective. To properly control the soil degradation in a sugarcane area, it is necessary to simultaneously employ other management practices to minimize the soil physical degradation, thus providing a less restrictive environment for the growth of plants. Therefore, to reduce tillage and the number of cover crops, we suggest complementary management practices to maintain and improve the soil's physical functions in sugarcane fields. Recent studies have shown the relevance of straw for maintaining the soil's physical quality, indicating that the judicious adoption of straw management is necessary, keeping at least 7 Mg ha -1 of straw on the soil surface, when the industry has the interest of use part of straw for bioenergy production  
 Our hypothesis has been partially confirmed since cover crop and conservation tillage were efficient to attenuate soil physical degradation; however, these practices were not enough to increase the stalk yield of sugarcane. Therefore, our result suggests that sugarcane yield is determined by a complex group of properties and not exclusively by soil physical condition. Although the treatments in our study did not induce substantial differences in the stalk yield of sugarcane, the use of cover crops, such as sunn hemp and millet, associated with subsoiling (at 0.40 or 0.70 m depth) during sugarcane planting, are promising management strategies to sustain better soil's physical quality when compared to traditional management, conventional soil tillage without cover crops and/or cash crop, as peanuts, that increase the risks of soil compaction and physical degradation. Continuous improvement in soil physical properties, year by year, provided by the use of more sustainable management systems in sugarcane cultivations, can generate benefits in the soil quality. However, subsoiling benefits tend not to be persistent over time. Thus, we encourage long-term studies to assess the permanence of these results. Rev Bras Cienc Solo 2022;46:e0210123
Improving plant diversity in cropping systems in both space and time can enhance ecosystem services while mitigating the potential disservices generated by anthropogenic inputs  No cover crop or cover crop mixture will provide all of these services, and some may generate disservices such as pre-emptive competition for water and nutrients with subsequent cash crops (Thorup-  Among cover crop species commonly used worldwide (Table  1 ), Brassicaceae or crucifer cover crops are especially interesting for pathogen and weed suppression due to the release of several potentially biocidal hydrolysis products such as isothiocyanates (ITCs) from the secondary metabolites known as glucosinolates (GSLs) present in their tissues  1 ). Pest, pathogen and weed suppression by ITCs via these two processes has previously been termed "biofumigation"  One possible solution to improve pest and diseases suppression while avoiding potential disservices of sole-species cover crops may be to use species mixtures to provide better suppression of certain pests, diseases and weeds compared to sole crops  2 ). Legumes can provide nitrogen input through N fixation (Thorup-  
 The impact of crucifer cover crops on pathogens, beneficial organisms and weeds can arise not only from allelochemical effects, but from numerous other processes such as non-hosting effects, plant cover effects, organic matter addition and soil structural effects (Fig.  3 ). In this first section, we review the conceptual interest of cover crop mixtures as tools to improve suppression of pathogens and weeds while minimizing potential disservices on beneficial organisms. In each section, we focus first on crucifer sole crop effects and then consider the likely changes associated with the inclusion of a legume with the crucifer in a mixture. Fig.  3  provides a schematic summary of the concepts discussed in this section. All latin names and abbreviations of crops, microbes, nematodes and insects mentioned in this review are displayed, respectively, in Tables 2-4. 
 There are about 132 different GSLs commonly found in crucifer's spp. that vary in their structure depending on the character of the organic side chain (aliphatic, aromatic or indole) (Table  5 ). Present in plant vacuoles, GSLs generate toxic hydrolysis products when they react with the enzyme myrosinase through tissues damage due to biofumigation or pathogen attack (Fig.  2 )  2 )  Bispecific crucifer-legume cover crop mixtures will first change the diversity of allelochemicals produced (Fig.  3 ). Indeed legumes themselves can produce a wide diversity of allelochemicals, such as phenolic acids or terpenoides, that differ among species  3 ). However,  
 The fallow period between two cash crops is a key period to break the cycles of weeds and pathogens that can't survive long without a suitable host. Cover crop species are also susceptible to pathogens and must be chosen to avoid the hosting of pathogens that would otherwise decline during bare fallow periods. Crucifers are break crops, or non-hosts, of numerous pathogens  3 ). First, a dilution effect occurs as the density of crucifers is halved in bispecific mixtures, making the pest less able to locate and infest its host plants  The same mechanisms can also reduce the pathogen host effects of legumes, reducing diseases in the legume and generating improved N-related services. However, special care must be taken when designing appropriate mixtures as legumes can also host numerous pests and diseases  
 Compared to a bare soil, the presence of a growing plant cover affects light, nutrient and water fluxes as well as microclimate resulting in changes in organism communities  3 )  Plant cover is also key to weed suppression due to competition for abiotic resources  3 )  
 At cover crop termination, some studies report similar levels of pathogen suppression between crucifers and other cover crop species  Interestingly, high organic matter accumulation from diversified biomass also results in higher microfaunal diversity, particularly that of decomposer taxa, at the expense of herbivore/root-feeding species  3 )  
 Poor physical soil conditions such as inadequate drainage, poor aggregate stability and high soil compaction can exacerbate the damage from soil-borne diseases  Crucifer-legume cover crop mixtures with complementary rooting systems (e.g., deep and shallow) have potential to improve soil structure by decreasing soil compaction more effectively than pure crops (Fig.  3 )  
 In this section, we review studies dealing with the impact of crucifers as sole cover crops and in mixtures on a wide range of living organisms. Pathogen suppression as well as impacts on beneficial organisms are discussed as they are both important processes within the system. In each subsection, we first discuss the evidence for in vitro toxicity of GSL-hydrolysis products on various organisms and then consider field experiments that include crucifer sole cover crops. Where possible we include studies where the inclusion of legumes in mixtures was considered, but in the absence of published literature we speculate about the possible interactions. As a guide to the discussion, Fig.  4  provides a summary of the effects of crucifer sole crops and mixtures on each of the living organism classes considered. 
 
 In in vitro studies, ITCs released by crucifers have demonstrated promising biocidal effects on numerous pathogenic microbes including Rhizoctonia solani; Verticillium dahliae; Gaeumannomyces graminis var. tritici, Aphanomyces euteiches and Ralstonia solanacearum  For example, incidence of R. solani on beetroot was reduced by 45% by Indian mustard cover crops  Crucifers are considered to be good break crops for the take-all fungus G. tritici in cereal systems. Severity of take-all in wheat has been shown to be entirely controlled when wheat is preceded by canola compared to wheat (29% severity) as canola does not host the pathogen  However for some pathogens such as V. dahliae it has generally been shown that it is much more difficult to achieve suppression using biofumigation. The pathogen has been found to be less sensitive to the commercial soil fumigant methyl-ITC (known as Metham sodium, Vapam) than other pathogens  The effect of biofumigant crucifers on A. euteiches, the fungus responsible for pea root rot has been studied extensively, and significant suppression has been demonstrated for Indian and white mustard cover crops (À50% of severity)  Bacterial pathogens have often been found to be less susceptible than fungi to in vitro ITC (e.g.,  
 Despite the ability of ITCs to suppress Fusarium spp. and Sclerotinia spp. in vitro  Incidence of Fusarium increased in tomato following incorporation of a mixture of white and Indian mustard (+34%)  Mixtures may be an effective option when crucifers promote specific diseases, or are not effective to suppress them. For example, legumes such as hairy vetch can suppress Fusarium of watermelon by more than 50% through an increase in the bacterial population in soils  
 Beyond pathogen suppressive effects, crucifer biocidal effects (positive or negative) can influence the general microbial populations including beneficial organisms that may impact soil health and fertility. In general, the impact of crucifer cover crops on beneficial organisms has received less attention than pathogens. Here, we discuss the current knowledge of crucifer effects on antagonist microbes, and we then consider two specific examples; arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) and N-cycling bacteria, with a focus on the potential for legumes in a mixture to mitigate potential disservices associated with sole crucifer cover crops. 
 Toxicity of the ITCs can impact non-target organisms in soil  
 Most crucifer cover crops are non-hosts of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) and may even reduce populations compared to bare soil through ITC suppressive effects. In vitro, 2-phenylethyl ITC has been found to be harmful to AMF  6  for details),  In vitro ITC applications have an impact on key soil bacterial communities involved in critical processes such as nitrogen cycling, including nitrification and nitrogen fixation  "SC" indicates sole cover crops. Living organisms appear in the same order as discussed in the text. We report a general lack of studies dealing with impacts of crucifer-legume mixtures on fungal and bacterial pathogens. than bare soil (causing a lower pea root nodulation) than to a potential biofumigation effect on rhizobacteria. Theoretically, legume inclusion in mixtures should decrease any potential negative effects of the crucifers on soil microbes involved in nitrogen cycling but experiments are needed to confirm this hypothesis. 
 
 It is widely known that cover crops can reduce weed germination and/or establishment  In vitro application of ITCs has been proven to inhibit or delay weed germination  The impact of crucifer cover crops on weeds has been reviewed by  Among the same species, cultivars can also have different suppressive effects as highlighted by  Cover crops can also have a longer-term effect on weed populations through microorganism-induced suppression which extends the longevity of a cover crop's effectiveness  Microbes can also indirectly impact weeds by activating biocides from water-soluble allelochemicals released soon after cover crop incorporation  Mixing cover crop species is one of the strategies available to increase weed suppression compared to sole cover crops. For cash crops, it has been widely shown that improved diversity of plants in agroecosystems can increase weed suppression  Examples of weed suppression by cover crop mixtures often deal with cereal-legume cover crops  6  for details). In field conditions  At the interface between intercropping and cover cropping, some systems involve the intercropping of a rape cash crop with a legume cover crop (also called a companion plant). In these systems, undersown legumes provide better weed suppression (from 20% to 75%) than the sole rape crop due to better soil coverage  In conclusion, crucifer-legume mixtures show strong potential for weed suppression through high competition and biochemical suppression of weed growth. Furthermore, resilience for weed suppression is increased in mixtures through different species growing requirements and through plant plasticity. Indeed, one species in mixtures can compensate potential deficiencies of other species during the vegetation period to maintain high weed suppression. Total weed suppression is difficult to achieve but the combination of the introduction of cover crops and the strong competition brought by mixtures would potentially make it possible to decrease herbicide use substantially. However, the lack of knowledge of mechanisms of suppression makes it difficult to select the best combination of different cover crops. Selection of cover crops mixtures through traits and functional complementarity for abiotic resource use could be an efficient strategy to improve weed suppression potential of cover crops  
 Herbicidal effects of crucifers on the companion legume in a cover crop mixture would reduce the effectiveness of the mixture. Crucifers have been shown to have herbicidal effects on legumes in vitro  In a study dealing with many crucifer legumes species and cultivars (Coue ¨del et al., 2018c) did not find any strong incompatibilities for crop development, with the exception of radish and turnip rape which had a stronger competition than other crucifer species by reducing companion legume biomass per plant by 20% and 30%, respectively. Furthermore, intercropping of rape cash crops with a legume companion crop did not show any incompatibility of development for the many legumes species tested  
 GSL hydrolysis products such as ITCs generally have a short half-life in soil and don't persist at detectable levels beyond a few days  Legumes may also produce biocidal effects and may influence subsequent crop development  In conclusion, herbicidal effects of crucifers do not appear to impact legume development meaning that crucifer-legume mixtures are generally compatible. Furthermore, mixtures reduce weed growth and improve nutrient green manure effects providing improved growing conditions for the subsequent cash crop. 
 
 
 ITCs have been proven to have biocidal effects on many nematode families in vitro  Among mechanisms other than biocidal effects of ITCs, non-host or poor-host status of crucifers are often the key to reducing nematode populations  The difficult part of choosing an appropriate cover crop is that this host status depends on both the crucifer species, and on the different nematode species present. For example, canola  Suppressive effects of crucifer cover crops on plant parasitic nematodes are also explained by their impact on the wider antagonist food web through changes in soil microfauna and microflora. Indeed, free-living nematodes appeared to be less susceptible to the toxins produced by crucifer crops than plant-parasitic nematodes  Improving plant diversity is seen as a potential solution to improve nematode suppression  Sole legume cover crops can suppress nematodes as shown for hairy indigo and joint vetch on populations of sting nematodes (B. longicaudatus) and root-knot nematodes (M. incognita) while velvet bean lowered the populations of several root-knot nematode species  Interestingly,  6  for details). A mixture of vetch and radish had the same plant-feeding nematode levels as the vetch sole crop and more than the radish sole crop  
 Due to different residues and resource use, plant families will not promote the same nematode feeding groups  The effect of crucifer-legume mixtures on general nematode communities have not been widely studied but  
 Macrofaunal pest suppression is mainly an issue of concern for cover crop development and biomass production itself, as pest damage to the cover crop or the need for protection with pesticides may reduce the effectiveness or compromise the other ecosystem services of the crucifer cover crops. However, crucifer cover crops can also act as a bridge for some pests of the subsequent cash crop and the potential for these disservices must be assessed. 
 Crucifers are commonly attacked by many species of insects that are either specialists or generalists  As mentioned above, GSL concentration and types are important considerations in crucifer pest interactions, but these can change in mixtures.  2008 ) who found decreases in aliphatic and indole GSL concentration when cabbage was mixed with clover, and  The main interest of mixtures for macrofauna pest suppression is to (i) disrupt the ability of the pest to find a host due to physical barriers of the companion crop and (ii) have repellent effects due the odor of the host plant  Mixtures can be ineffective against some insects when there is a strong ability to find the host such as for P. rapae  Beyond physical effects, companion plants also combine chemical barriers for insects as their tenure time is reduced in mixed stands as the presence of a complex sensory environment may distract pests from settled feeding  Mixtures of different crucifer species can also decrease insect abundance. For example, flea beetles  In conclusion, despite several studies dealing with insect suppression by crucifer-legume cover crop mixtures, impacts on several specific crucifer pests have scarcely been studied including cabbage-stem flea beetle (Psylliodes chrysocephala and Phyllotreta nemorum) or even pollen beetles (Meligethes aeneus and Meligethes viridescens). Screening the suppressive effects of crucifers and legumes on insect pests along with interactive effects is required to avoid inadvertent disservices resulting from inappropriate mixtures that may exacerbate insect damage within the system. 
 Slugs are considered as one of the main concerns for cover crop use due to the potential to act as a bridge for slugs that infest the next cash crop. It is especially a concern for slug-sensitive cash crops such as sunflower, wheat or triticale. Even if molluscs can be found under crucifer plants  Reduced sensitivity to slugs has been found for black mustard and Arabidopsis when molluscs mucus had been previously applied, due to the activation of the jasmonic pathway, and a higher production of GSL  Slug palatability can vary significantly between cover crops species  Surprisingly given the significant issue with slugs, we found no studies dealing with slug abundance in crucifer-legume cover-crop mixtures, although the studies discussed above suggest interactions are likely to arise between slugs and diversified cover crops. It would appear cover crop screening and mixture interactions could be a useful area of research to seek opportunities to reduce the overwintering of slugs and reduce pesticide use. 
 ITCs may attract parasitoids of crucifers pests; for example, parasitoids of D. brassicae were attracted by traps baited with 2-phenylethyl ITC (Platygaster subuliformis) or 2-propenyl ITC (Omphale clypealis)  Overall, cover crops and mulch at the soil surface generally enhance earthworm abundance  2016 ) found that broccoli, mustard and oilseed radish had no significant effect on earthworm (Eisenia andrei) survival or growth, even if broccoli reduced earthworm reproduction by 37%. Nevertheless,  As for insects pests, the use of mixtures could also impact the abundance of beneficial natural enemies through different barriers (e.g., physical, olfactory). In a general review of various intercropped plants and various beneficial species,  It is therefore necessary to study the impact of species mixtures on both the pests and antagonists at the same time in order to identify conditions where antagonists are enhanced at the expense of pests, and to avoid the risk of suppressing antagonists without impacts on their pests. For example, cabbage intercropped with white clover reduced the number of D. radicum pupae per plant but also the probability that the pupal parasitoid (Aleochara bilineata) located in plants infested with D. radicum. Reductions in overwintering D. radicum could then be mitigated by a decrease in pupal parasitism in this system  Plant diversity through broader diets could also be useful to keep a level of specialist predators that may face periods of inadequate prey availability  A higher diversity of cover crop plants could also attract natural enemies through nectar and pollen sources for predatory insects such as shown with the use of crimson clover when grown with cotton  
 As shown on Fig.  5 , many links exist between different organisms that could increase the impact of cover crops on pathogens, and these interactions are considered in this section. Beneficial macrofauna can play a key role in pest regulation as they have an impact on weeds, pathogenic fungi and pathogenic nematodes. For example, ground beetles (Coleoptera: Carabidae) act as antagonists of weed seeds, other insects and slugs  Insect pathogenic fungi such as Hypocreales spp. are known to kill pathogenic nematodes  These interactions and biological regulations between living organisms represent an interspersing of indirect biocontrol effects of cover crops, especially when beneficial macrofauna and insect pathogenic fungi can be enhanced. 
 Our review of the pest and disease suppression potential by crucifer sole crops reinforces the widely reported pest-suppression potential they exhibit, although the suppressive potential is clearly quite variable for different target organisms. Disservices generated by negative impacts on beneficial organisms were scarce and may not represent a strong concern when selecting a crucifer cover crop for biocontrol. Often there was a focus on individual crucifer species for suppression of a given pathogen, and there may be potential to consider a more diverse range of crucifer species. In that context, definitive links between pathogen suppression and GSL-derived allelochemicals, previously emphasized by  The summaries in Table  6  and Fig.  4  emphasize the overall lack of experiments dealing with the suppressive effects of cover crop mixtures on soil-borne fungal and bacterial pathogens. Above-ground organisms such as insects and weeds have been the focus of several studies on cover-crop mixtures which may relate to the relative ease with which they can be monitored compared with below-ground pathogens such as fungi and bacteria. Thus the impact of mixtures on a wide range of belowground organisms, both pathogenic and beneficial, remains to be investigated. For crucifer-legume mixtures, the main concern in terms of pathogen management is to select the best species mixtures for suppressive effects that also avoid pest enhancement (through hosting). Screening both crucifer and legume species of interest for host status of the most relevant pests and pathogens is a first crucial step. Screening at the cultivar scale may also be a necessary refinement as host, non-host and allelopathic potential have all been shown to be potentially cultivar dependent  
 This review highlights the numerous mechanisms involved in pest suppression by cover crops and the importance of careful selection of appropriate cover crop species for use in mixtures. Several aspects of experimental design and approach must be considered to generate improved understanding of such mechanisms. 
 When using crucifers, it is important to know whether GSL production has an effect on the organisms of interest or not (e.g.,  In the case of crucifer-legume mixtures, allelochemical cocktail effects are especially interesting to assess as legumes also have specific and different allelochemical properties. The biofumigation potential of mixtures could be more thoroughly tested against both sole crucifer and legume cover crops for the specific pathogens of interest. Mixtures containing GSL-free crucifers could also be compared especially on beneficial microbe populations and on legume growth, as GSLs produced by crucifers could impair the N services provided by the legumes. Concerning herbicide effects of crucifers, if no GSL-free cultivars are available, clues of GSL effects are still possible to achieve using experimental designs aimed to isolate allelochemical effects. For example, biocidal effects of crucifers on companion legumes could be assessed in a similar way to that of  6 ). 
 Even when GSL-related effects are proven through well-chosen controls, it is always in a specific soil and climate context. Biofumigation efficacy is difficult to generalize as GSL conversion to ITCs and the fate of ITCs in soil for a targeted organism is highly dependent of pedoclimatic conditions and agronomic practices (Fig.  7 )  7 ). Moreover, the initial GSL production by cover crops is also dependent on these conditions and also highly variable even when using the same cultivars  A new multi-service paradigm based on a systems approach taking into account agronomic practices and other mechanisms responsible for biocontrol is needed to make better species choices and guide biofumigant management (Fig.  7 )  Correct assessment of biofumigation effects on pests and beneficial organisms is required to assess both services and potential disservices, and this can be challenging in the field. In that regard, novel soil ecology approaches based on new DNA monitoring of populations or inoculum levels of a wide range of both pest and beneficial organisms is a relatively new tool that is providing new insights into the effects on the soil biological systems  
 Beyond the biotic services considered in this review, MSCC also bring many abiotic services such as improved soil properties, better nutrient cycling and greenhouse gas emission mitigation  Two common examples of the interests of biotic services brought by cover crops leading to abiotic services are earthworm and nematode population enhancement. A well-known example of interactions between biotic and abiotic services is the role of earthworms to improve soil structure, decompose organic matter, stimulate microorganisms and contribute to the carbon and other nutrient cycling in soil  Cover cropping usually increases the diversity of beneficial nematodes communities. Nematodes are in general considered as good indicators of soil physical and chemical proprieties  Cover crop biomass can be considered a key indicator for both biotic and abiotic services since without sufficient growth the MSCC will not provide sufficient services and secondary metabolites may not be produced in sufficient quantity (see Fig.  8 ). Indeed for a given cover crop species, high cover crop biomass leads to better carbon sequestration, better nutrient uptake and recycling (Thorup-  8 ) (Thorup-  8 . Through an overall increase in biomass production compared to sole crops  
 As cover crops can impact many aspects of the production system, a multiservice paradigm is a relevant approach. A single focus (e.g., biocontrol from specific natural compounds such as GSLs) ignores both the other services from the crucifer (organic matter input, trap crop, soil structural improvement) as well as those that may arise from a legume in the mixture (N services). A key practical question remains the selection and the assemblage of species, and also the choice of cultivars. We propose a 3-step multi-criteria approach to assist better cover crop selection and to provide a framework to consider the merit of mixtures. The level of information required regarding some aspects of the approach also points to numerous ongoing research gaps (Fig.  9 ). 
 Step 1 (Fig.  9 ) considers the main services targeted and the level of compromise between services, to guide the selection of species or the proportion of species in mixtures. We assume there is no single cover crop species or approach that will suit every situation and objective. Field characteristics such as chemical soil fertility may influence the choices made. For example, on poorer soils, a high percentage of legumes in the mixture may be advised as catch crop services are less relevant, while nutrient green manure effects may be significant. In the case of more fertile soil, species with high catch crop properties could reduce nutrient losses and avoid groundwater pollution. Physical soil fertility improvement through soil de-compaction would suggest use of cover crops with strong taproots or mixtures with different rooting systems. Specific pathogen suppression may also be optimized with the use of specific crucifer or legume species Antagonisms between desired services and unwanted disservices may occur (e.g., green manure effect of legumes are incompatible with Aphanomyces suppression). Therefore, one classification of the services according to short-and long-term effects is also important when selecting a cover species, including the profitability for farmers. Farmers may conduct their own in situ experiments to address issues of interest and pertinence regarding cover crops choices according to their objectives and the desired services. Many cover crop management options may be tested prior to identifying the optimum MSCC system. The "learning curve" process of farmers must also be taken into account on many components of cover crop management (e.g., sowing and termination methods and timing) to improve the chances of achieving the multiservices targeted  
 Step 2: Assessing and improving multi-services provided by cover crops Selection of cover crop cultivars is significantly less advanced than for cash crops and to date has been mainly based on biomass production and nitrogen Fig.  9  Three-step guideline to improve cover crop species choice. "0," "+," "++," "+++" mean, respectively, almost zero, low, medium and strong knowledge for each service or agronomic characteristic. Pink, light green and dark green colors mean, respectively, low, medium and strong level of performance for each service or agronomic characteristic. White frames mean that not enough data are available on level of performance and may represent research opportunities. catch crop traits. Few cultivars have been specifically breed for biofumigation by maximizing GSL (or other allelochemical) production (Indian and white mustard species)  Based on our own experiments (Coue ¨del et al., 2018a,b,c), Fig.  9  shows an example of multi-services to evaluate cover crops. Even on cultivars already certified and used, we report significant knowledge gaps on the capacity of cover crops to capture and recycle nutrients other than nitrogen. Nutrients such as S, Ca, Mg, K and Mg are subject to leaching and represent a major source of economic loss and pollution when lost in ground water. Other nutrients such as P are more subject to run-off and cover crops could play a key role in their recycling. In our experimental conditions, we found no major differences between cover crop species of the same family for a single abiotic service such as catch crop or green manure, but screening is needed in other conditions and for longer growing periods (fallow period >3 months) to confirm this. Despite some data on such abiotic services, data on the biocontrol potential of many cover crops (GSL production, weed control, impact on pathogen and beneficial organisms) is lacking. Potential disservices such as disease hosting, invasive characteristics of the cover crop species (through seed production) require special vigilance during the selection process. Assessment of species mixture performance for nitrogen-related services is available, but data are lacking on many other services. Special selection of plant traits for better complementarity of abiotic resource use and pathogen control would provide the basis to improve multiservices in mixtures (Fig.  9 ). The ecological theory "the more diverse, the better" of cover crop mixtures must be challenged and confirmed, as bispecific mixtures could be effective and sufficient to generate a significant improvement in multiservices provision while reducing management complexity and avoiding unwanted species competition  
 Step 3: Agronomic considerations Key technical opportunities and constraints influencing agronomic and economic cover crop performance occur mainly at sowing and termination as cover crops do not require intensive management during their growth in the fallow period between two cash crops. Sowing costs, emergence dynamics and sensitivity to termination methods are the main specific agronomic issues to take into account when choosing cover crop species (Fig.  9 ). Seed costs represent a significant cost of establishment  9 ). Sowing of mixtures may also require species with similar seed size, as successful emergence of cover crops from a given depth is dependent on it  Ensuring good cover crop emergence is a major challenge and one of the main sources of variability in obtaining the desired ecosystem services in regions with hot and dry summers  The interaction of cover crop growth with soil type and climate has an impact on the method of termination. Tillage and herbicides are relatively efficient termination methods whatever cover crop species is used; however, these methods have many drawbacks such as environmental and economic costs  In conclusion, despite promising techniques to successfully establish and terminate multi-services cover crops, there is little published literature on the agronomy to economically optimize management of specific cover crop species, and even less for cover crop mixtures. 
 To illustrate the use of the multi-step guideline proposed in Fig.  9 , we provide two contrasting situations where cover crop choice is considered in different initial cropping conditions with different objectives. In the case of northern European cropping conditions, with pedoclimates and cropping systems highly sensitive to nutrient leaching (due to high rainfall during fallow period) and poor in nutrient content, the objectives of desired services (step 1) would include a strong catch crop, green manure effects and weed control. Crucifer-legume mixtures could be advised to mutualize both services of nutrient catch crop and nutrient green manure effects (step 2). Coue ¨del et al. (2018c) showed good complementarity of growth for clover and vetch species with many crucifer species. Mustard-clover spp. or mustard-vetch spp. mixtures could also be a good option when targeting multi-services from cover cropping. Legume species choice could depends on climatic conditions as Egyptian clover (i.e., cv. Tabor) is highly sensitive to frost while crimson clover (e.g., cv. Cegalo) is not. We showed in this review many examples where white mustard has a strong weed suppression without generating strong disservices on beneficial organisms. Many fungal diseases can also represent a strong factor limiting cash crop production in humid climates. For example, white mustards have been showed to efficiently suppress R. solani in sugar beet or potato systems  In the case of dry fallow periods with high temperature in summer, combined with compacted soils such as in southern Europe or Australia, objectives would be to include nutrient green manure services combined with soil de-compaction. Indeed in areas with low rainfall, drainage and then nutrient leaching rarely occurs and catch crop effects of cover crops may not be important, while pre-emptive competition for water and N may be critical issues. Crucifers with strong taproots and low water use and good tolerance of stress can be advised such as radish or turnip for soil de-compaction, while a high density of legumes tolerant to temperature and water stress such as Egyptian clover could also be considered (steps 2 and 3). Warmer climates can also induce higher insect pest damage on crucifer cover crops and inclusion of legume has to be considered as a repellent solution (steps 1 and 2). Tall cultivars of Egyptian clovers could then be chosen as a visual and physical insect repellent to protect radishes and turnip from flies or weevils attacks, for example (step 2). Despite high sensitivity of many fungal diseases to humid conditions, some are still harmful in warm and dry climates such as G. tritici (step 1). Canola and Indian mustard cover crops are interesting to suppress G. tritici and can be used in mixtures as legumes are also break crops (step 2). In these two examples, steps 2 and 3 are interrelated and must be considered together after a first phase of objective selection. Objectives of step 1 may need to be classified by order of importance and trade-offs have to be clearly assessed, as antagonism can occur between multi-services targeted. 
 This review suggests crucifer-legume cover crop mixtures may be a promising approach to increase the multi-services in cropping systems. The biofumigant services of crucifers could be largely maintained in species mixtures while some of the disservices on beneficial organisms could be potentially decreased. However, while there are a few field studies on different aspects of species mixtures, there is a dearth of comprehensive multidisciplinary studies that adopt a multi-services paradigm, so that many of the theoretical hypotheses for the benefits of mixtures have not been demonstrated to date. It is clear that there must be special care taken in cover crop selection of species in mixtures to avoid pathogen increase and incompatibility of crop growth between the species which can reduce the effectiveness of mixtures. Within the broad range of tools available in agro-ecological crop protection, multi-service cover crop mixtures cannot be seen as a stand-alone solution to manage pests and pathogens, but it is likely that adequate levels of control will require combinations with other pest management tactics. By taking a wider systems approach, beyond pest management, by using a multi-services paradigm, cover crops may enhance the physical, chemical and biological fertility of the soil. Understanding the trade-offs between abiotic and biotic services within a systems approach is now key to assess services and disservices provided by cover crop mixtures.
In Europe, durum wheat (Triticum turgidum L. subsp. durum) is mainly grown in the Mediterranean basin and is used for pasta and semolina production. Grain yield and grain protein concentration, i.e. the ratio of grain protein content to grain yield, are the major characteristics of interest for producers and the agrofood industry. Nitrogen and water stress are the major abiotic stresses reducing grain yield and grain protein content of durum wheat  Among soil-crop models, multi-species models such as STICS  Crop models are generally provided with default values for all parameters. However, it is often found that this default parameter set does not give a satisfactory fit when applied to a new set of contexts  A number of difficulties arise in parameter estimation for soil-crop models due to the complexity of the models and the diversity of the data available for calibration. One difficulty is the choice of parameters to estimate  A second difficulty is the choice of the overall procedure for parameter estimation. One common procedure is to carry out the calibration in steps. In each step, only a single target variable is used and a limited number of parameters are fitted to that target variable  A third problem for model calibration is the choice of criterion to be minimised. If several response variables are used simultaneously, then a decision is needed on how to weight the different responses. There is also the question of how to take into account the fact that there are generally multiple measurements from each field. In general, soil-crop model calibration papers only report the results for a single calibration procedure  In this study we compared three different parameter estimation procedures for the STICS soil-crop model in order to provide an insight into their effects. The first procedure carries out estimation with one or very few target variable per step, while the second lumps many target variables together within one step. Comparison of these was intended to provide some insight into the effect of parameter estimation by steps as opposed to fitting the model to multiple target variables simultaneously. Both these procedures use dynamic and end-of-season variables as target variables for calibration. In the third procedure, only the end-of-season variables grain yield and grain N concentration are used as target variables for calibration, since these are the variables of major interest. Comparison with the first two procedures allowed us to evaluate the usefulness of using dynamic variables as the target variable in the calibration procedure as opposed to using only end-of-season variables. The results obtained using the different procedures were analysed using statistical criteria evaluating model agreement with data. Model performance for management decision-making was also qualitatively evaluated through an agronomic analysis of model response to changes in N management strategy. 
 
 The STICS soil-crop model is a generic dynamic model which simulates daily carbon, water and nitrogen dynamics in the soil-crop-atmosphere system for multiple crops (e.g. winter wheat, maize, barley, soybean, sunflower, rapeseed, grassland, tomato, grapevines, etc.). A complete description of the equations and default parameter values of the STICS model is given in  STICS is organised into modules that simulate different key processes. One module calculates plant development, taking into account crop temperature and day length as drivers. Calculation of crop temperature involves air temperature, solar radiation, daily evaporation and crop height  The water balance module calculates soil moisture and potential and actual soil evaporation, as well as potential and actual plant transpiration. The ratio of actual to potential transpiration is the factor that determines the water stress factors. The nitrogen balance module accounts for mineralization, nitrification, denitrification and crop nitrogen uptake. Crop nitrogen requirements are defined using a maximum dilution curve  The input variables are permanent soil characteristics (clay content, organic nitrogen content, water-holding capacity, soil albedo, infiltration rate), management operations (cultivar, date, depth and density of sowing, dates and amounts of N fertilisation and irrigation), and daily climatic data (min and max temperature, rainfall, potential evapotranspiration, incoming solar radiation). Additional information can be used as input variables, e.g. the dates of observed development stages can be specified as input variables. If not, the dates are calculated by the model. In the same way, Leaf Area Index (LAI) measurements can be interpolated to give daily values of LAI, which can be used as input variables. Otherwise, LAI is calculated by the model. A combination of one site, one year and one management system determines the unit of a simulation, which is referred to as a Site-Year-Management Unit (SYMU) in this paper. STICS outputs a large number of variables. The main variables of interest in this study are end-of-season variables such as: (i) number of grains (NBGRAIN), (ii) grain yield and (iii) grain N concentration. Other variables of interest are: (i) the dynamic variable above-ground biomass (AGB), (ii) above-ground plant N (AGPN), (iii) NNI, (iv) LAI, (v) soil moisture of each horizon h (SM(h)), (vi) overall soil moisture content (RESMES) and (vii) overall soil N content (AZOMES). Some of these can be used as indicators for N fertilization and/or irrigation management decisions (NNI and RESMES in particular). All of the parameters for durum wheat have default values, which are listed on the STICS website ( 
 Experimental data were collected from four experimental sites located in the south of France: Auzeville (43  Nîmes (43 • 50 N 4 • 21 E)  and Avignon (43 • 57 N  4  • 49 E). The data base contains data from 373 SYMU, covering 13 years  1  and 2 ), each site or cultivar not necessarily being represented in each year (nonorthogonal design). • 31 N 1 • 28 E), Peyrens (43 • 21 N 1 • 57 E), The data base was split into two parts. The SYMU with dynamic measurements were used for model calibration; those data constitute the Optimisation Data Base (OptimDB). The SYMU with only end-of-season measurements were used only for evaluation; those data constitute the Evaluation Data Base (EvalBD). The data covered a wide range of yields (1.7-9.7 t/ha) and grain N concentrations (14.2-31.6 g/kg) (Fig.  1 ). Since the model was to be used for evaluating nitrogen management, particular attention was paid to its ability to reproduce the effect of N management. For this, two series of data from experiments conducted at Auzeville in 2001-2002 were selected. In the first series, four different amounts of fertiliser-N were applied (x 1 = 50 kgN/ha, x 2 = 100 kgN/ha, x 3 = 160 kgN/ha, x 4 = 220 kgN/ha). In the second series, total fertiliser-N was fixed at 220 kg/ha, but this amount was split in different ways. For each series, four durum wheat varieties were tested (Lloyd, Nefer, Neodur and Montsegur). 
 
 The first estimation procedure (I12) had 12 successive steps (Table  3 ). Each step covered a key process in the simulation of final variables of interest, such as grain yield and grain N concentration. The step order was defined to represent model structure and hypotheses about crop growth and process dynamics. The first steps concerned potential conditions: Potential root growth (step 1), potential above-ground biomass increase (step 2), potential plant uptake of water and nitrogen (steps 3 and 4) and potential leaf area dynamics (steps 5 and 6). The following steps covered nitrogen stress effects on crop growth and LAI (steps 7 and 8). The remaining four steps covered end-of-season processes: grain number formation (step 9), post-flowering plant uptake of nitrogen (step 10), and finally grain yield elaboration (step 11) and grain N content accumulation (step 12). A step was defined by (i) the parameters estimated, (ii) the target variables and (iii) the data used to estimate the parameters. The parameters fitted were those believed to be the most influential within the equation for that process, based on sensitivity analysis  The data used at each step were data with the specified growing conditions (potential or all conditions). In the case of dynamic variables, data were log-transformed. In steps 2-4, interpolated LAI was used rather than calculated LAI, in order to avoid compensating for unsatisfactory LAI simulation. The second estimation procedure (I3) had three steps. The same data were used as in I12, but all of the dynamic data plus the NBGRAIN data were fitted simultaneously in the first step. Genetic parameters were estimated simultaneously with cropspecific parameters. As in I12, grain yield and grain N concentration were fitted in the last two steps. Overall, 29 parameters were estimated, a 50% reduction in the number of estimated parameters compared with I12. The last estimation procedure (F2) had only two steps and used only grain yield and grain N concentration as target variables. No dynamic data were used. The estimated parameters were the same as for I3. 
 When parameters were estimated on only one target variable, estimation was conducted by minimisation of the criterion C v proposed by  C v = s 1 n s i y s,i -ŷs,i (Â) 2 (1) where v is the target variable, s is the SYMU, n s is the number of measurements in s, y s,i is the measured value in SYMU s on the ith measurement date and ŷs,i (Â) is the corresponding simulated value with the parameter set Â. This criterion uses an average squared error per SYMU to give the same weight to each SYMU, whatever the number of measurements. When parameter estimation was based on several target variables simultaneously, the concentrated likelihood method was used. This allows the model to be fitted to several variables without the variance of the residual model error being known  C = v (Cv) Nv/2 (2) where N v is the number of SYMU with the target variable v. 
 Parameter estimation and evaluation were carried out using the software package OptimiSTICS  The goodness-of-fit criterion was minimised using a simplex algorithm, which was automatically repeated with five different starting points. The stopping conditions were: (i) minimum reduction of 10% of the corresponding optimisation criterion compared with the starting criterion and (ii) variation of parameter values between two iterations lower than 10 -4 . The parameter vector for the repetition with the smallest value of the goodness-of-fit criterion was used for subsequent steps of the procedure.    The statistical criteria used for model evaluation were calculated on the original data without log transformation and without averaging the number of measurements per SYMU. For I12, statistical criteria were calculated on all data of OptimDB and not on the specific subsets of data used to estimate parameters. A standard measure of agreement between model and data is the mean squared error (MSE), defined as: MSE = 1 n n i=1 (y i -ŷi (Â)) 2 (3) where the sum is over all measurements and n is the total number of measurements, y i is the measured value for the ith measurement and ŷi (Â) is the corresponding simulated value.  MSE = bias 2 + SDSD + LCS (4) Bias 2 = ( ȳ -ȳ) 2 (5) SDSD = ( meas -sim ) 2 (6) LCS = 2 meas sim (1 -r) ( 7 ) where ȳ is the average of the simulated values, meas and sim are the standard deviations of the observed and predicted values (with n rather than n-1 in the denominator) and r is the correlation between observations and predictions. The bias term measures the extent of differences between the average measured value and the average predicted value. The SDSD term measures the extent to which the variability in the observed data differs from that in the predicted data. The LCS term is the remainder, with no simple interpretation. The modelling efficiency is defined as: EF = 1 - (y i -ŷi ) 2 (y i -ȳ) 2 = 1 - MSE 2 meas (8) A value of 1 indicates a perfect model (MSE = 0) and a value of 0 a model for which MSE is equal to the original variability in the data. Negative values imply that it would be better to just use the average of the measured values as the predictor in all cases. 
 In order to explicitly evaluate the capacity of the model to reproduce the effect of increasing fertiliser-N in a particular site-year, we used the following criterion: MSE N = 3 j=1 y j+1 -y j x j+1 -x j - ŷj+1 -ŷj x j+1 -x j 2 ( 9 ) where j is the rank of applied fertiliser-N, y is measured grain yield or grain N concentration, ŷ is the corresponding simulated value and x j is applied fertiliser-N (x 1 = 40, x 2 = 100, x 3 = 160, x 4 = 220 kg/ha). The first term in brackets is the measured increase in y per unit increase in applied N and the second term is the corresponding simulated increase.  Fig.  2 , which also displays the values of RMSE, RRMSE and EF. MSE and its components are presented in Fig.  3 . 
 
 All three optimisation procedures improved the agreement between simulated and measured grain yield for OptimDB (reduced RMSE). The best agreement was obtained with F2, while I12 and I3 gave very similar results. Similar trends were observed for EvalBD. RRMSE values were around 15% for OptimDB and around 20% for EvalBD. Model efficiency was negative for the initial parameters, but increased to values higher than 0.5 for all three procedures. Bias strongly decreased after calibration for all three procedures. SDSD was negligible initially for OptimDB. SDSD contributed about 10% for EvalDB, but was reduced by calibration. After calibration, the most important part of model error was the LCS term. 
 Figs. 4 and 5 present results for grain N concentration. All the calibration procedures improved the agreement between simulated and measured values for OptimDB, with I3 and F2 giving the best results. For EvalDB, on the other hand, RMSE was at best the same as the initial values (for F2). Note that the agreement using the initial parameter values was quite good (RRMSE = 19% or 15%), so there was less room for improvement than with grain yield. Despite the relatively low RRMSE values, model efficiency values were negative because the variability in the data was very small. The decomposition of MSE indicated that the bias and SDSD contributions were quite small for the initial parameters. They were further reduced by all three procedures for OptimDB but not for EvalDB. 
 The results here only concern OptimDB, since EvalDB does not include measurements of dynamic variables. The results for NBGRAIN are included in this section.  Final MSE of variables used as the target variable at some point in the calibration procedure was reduced after calibration in almost every case. The only exceptions were SM 1 and SM 4 , target variables in the I12 procedure, which ended with MSE values slightly higher than the initial MSE. These variables were target variables simultaneously with SM 2 and SM 3 , for which MSE improved. MSE reductions were higher with I3 than with I12 for variables that were target variables in the two procedures (AGB, AGPN, LAI, NBGRAINS and RESMES). Final MSE of variables that were not used as target variables was not necessarily reduced. MSE could be reduced (AGB, AGPN, SM 2 , SM 4 , LAI, RESMES with F2 and SM 1 to SM 4 with I3), but could also be increased (SM 1 , NBGRAINS, RESMES with F2), or left unchanged (LAI with F2). When the bias was a significant part of initial MSE and a variable was a target variable, the bias was strongly reduced after calibration  SDSD was always the smallest contributor to MSE after calibration for target or non-target variables, although its contribution to final MSE increased for AGB and AGPN with I12. The LCS term of target variables was always reduced with I3 but not with I12 (SM 1 , SM 4 , LAI, RESMES). The LCS term was always the major source of model error after calibration, and in some cases was essentially the only contribution. 3.1.3.2. Target variables during calibration. Fig.  6  presents MSE of NBGRAIN and AGB after each of the twelve calibration steps of I12. These variables were chosen because they exhibit contrasting behaviour. NBGRAIN was one of the two target variables in step 9, and MSE for NBGRAIN was strongly decreased by that step. AGB was the target variable in steps 2, 6 and 7. In steps 2 and 6, only AGB data without stresses were used to run calibration. In step 7 all the AGB data with interpolated measured LAI values were used. MSE for AGB (calculated using all the data and simulated LAI) slightly decreased in steps 2 and 6 and slightly increased in step 7. When AGB and NBGRAIN were not target variables, MSE could increase or decrease as a result of calibrating the model for other target variables. The increase could be quite substantial (NBGRAIN in step 7 and to a lesser extent AGB in step 10). MSE of NBGRAIN after step 9 and AGB after step 10 remained stable because the parameters estimated in subsequent steps did not influence the simulation of these variables. 
 The results for variables of particular interest are presented in Table  5 ; these variables are key variables because they can be used as indicators for fertilisation and irrigation tactical decisions. Nitrogen status (INN) predictions at the stage ear 1 cm were improved after calibration with I12 and I3. However, the simulation error remained high (RRMSE ± 50%) and efficiency was negative. F2 did not decrease MSE compared with the initial value. Simulation errors for INN at flowering were lower than at the stage ear 1 cm. RRMSE decreased after calibration with I12 and I3. Model efficiency values were improved by calibration. F2 again did not lead to any improvement over the initial parameter values. Simulation error of soil water was already quite good initially (RRMSE = 8% and model efficiency close to one), and was not much changed by calibration. 
 The values for parameters estimated in all procedures are shown in Table  6 . These values differed from one procedure to another. Variations between procedures were relatively small for some parameters ('dlaimaxbrut', 'kmax'), but were quite large for most of the parameters estimated  The value of the genetic parameter 'vitirazo' differed between cultivars as well as between procedures. However, the order of the cultivars was more or less the same for all procedures, i.e. Biensur and Acalou always had the lowest values, while Lloyd and Amarillo always had the highest. The order for the parameter 'vitircarb' never differed by more than one placing between procedures, except for Neodur (ranked 6th with F2, 4th for I12 and 3rd for I3). The order of the parameter 'durvieF' for different cultivars was more variable. For example, Nefer had the smallest value of 'durvieF' with I12 and I3 but one of the highest values with F2.   3 . Points indicate that the response variable was the target variable for this step. 3.3. Model response to N management 3.3.1. Model response to increasing fertiliser-N dose Fig.  7  illustrates results for a single cultivar (Lloyd). Results for the other cultivars were comparable. Measured grain yields increased with increasing fertiliser-N dose. Simulated grain yield also increased with increasing N dose. Table  7  shows how well the different procedures represented the grain yield increase per added kg N, averaged over the four cultivars tested. F2 gave the best fit, but relative error after calibration remained quite high (RRMSE = 44%). I12 and I3 did not improve model response compared with the initial parameter values. Measured grain N concentration slightly increased as applied fertiliser-N increased, whereas simulated N concentrations increased much more strongly. Once again, F2 gave the best agreement with the data. 
 Fig.  8  shows the effect of splitting the application of 220 kg N/ha into different doses, here for the cultivar Lloyd. Different split doses all led to nearly the same grain yield, both according to the measurements and the three calibration procedures. Partitioning significantly affected measured grain N concentration. In particular, adding some of the N on the last two dates increased grain N concentration. None of the three calibration procedures reproduced this behaviour. The data for the other three cultivars led to similar conclusions (results not shown). 
 We compared three different ways of using data to estimate the parameters of the STICS soil-crop model. The I12 and I3 procedures use dynamic variables as well as grain yield and grain N concentration, while the F2 procedure uses only the two final variables. I12 and I3 differ in that calibration in I12 proceeds step-wise, with only one or two target variables per step (except that all four soil water variables are used together), while in I3 all the dynamic variables appear together as target variables in a single step. The different parameter estimation procedures were evaluated using the same data as were used for parameter calibration, and also using an additional independent data set. The conclusions for the two data sets were quite similar. It could be expected that the use of additional information, in the form of the dynamic variables, would improve model prediction overall, including for the final variables. This was found not to be the case. Surprisingly, the procedures I12 and I3, which use the dynamic variables, had larger errors for grain yield and grain N concentration than F2. On the other hand, the dynamic variables themselves were in most cases (but not all) more accurately predicted by I12 and I3 than by F2. In some cases (grain number, overall soil moisture), F2 gave much worse predictions than I12 or I3. This suggests that if only final variables are of interest, calibration using only those variables could in fact be better than using additional variables. If on the other hand the dynamic variables are important, then they should be used in the calibration procedure. Comparing I12 and I3, procedure I3 in most cases gave better results, which could be surprising. Procedure I12 seemed of interest because the parameters are estimated using only data directly related to those parameters. However, one consequence is that many of the calibration steps use only part of the overall data base, for example only those SYMU assumed to be without stress or those with sufficient LAI data to replace calculated LAI. This is probably one of the reasons why I3 performed better. Procedure I3 (and to a lesser extent I12) involves calibration using several target variables together. This requires a method for combining information from  different variables. Here this was done using the concentrated likelihood method, which does not require weights to be chosen for each variable. A more detailed analysis gives some understanding of how calibration operated in our study. First of all, calibration appeared to be quite effective in eliminating bias. When bias makes a major contribution to MSE, calibration is likely to be able to substantially reduce MSE by reducing or eliminating bias. The two best examples are AGPN and NBGRAIN, for which I12 and I3 both eliminated most of the bias. An important feature of calibration is that while calibration reduces MSE for the target variables, it can increase MSE for other variables. This is illustrated in Fig.  6 , where MSE for NBGRAIN and to a lesser extent for AGB increased in some of the steps where the variable in question was not the target variable. The most obvious example was NBGRAIN in procedure F2. MSE for NBGRAIN, which ) for simulations after calibration using I12, ( ) after calibration using I3, ( ) after calibration using F2. Vertical bars represent sample standard deviations of measurements. Letters indicate significant difference at p < 0.05 using ANOVA followed by Tukey's test. is not a target variable for F2, nearly doubled with F2 compared with the initial value. Another aspect of calibration that emerged concerns the values of the model parameters. These values can be quite different for different calibration procedures. An extreme example here is the parameter 'cgrain', with values that varied from 0.04 (procedure I3) to 0.59 (procedure F2). The parameters estimated compensate for errors elsewhere in the model, and these errors are different for the different procedures. We limited this compensation effect by constraining those parameters with physiological meaning to be within realistic limits. Nevertheless, the parameter values are specific not only to a specific data set, but also to the specific calibration approach that is used. This could be considered an original finding of our work. The capacity of the STICS soil-crop model to simulate or predict grain yield and grain N concentration over a large range of growing conditions was satisfactory with every procedure. In fact, RRMSE values for F2 were 14% for the optimisation data baseOptimDB and 19% for the evaluation data baseEvalDB, which are comparable to the RRMSE of 23% obtained by  The capacity of the model to simulate dynamic variables that could be used as indicators in irrigation or fertilisation decisionmaking guidance was variable. Total soil moisture content was well reproduced in terms of dynamics (RRMSE less than 10% and EF close to one). On the other hand, NNI at the stage ear 1 cm had high RRMSE and negative efficiency. Nevertheless, at flowering the error in NNI was much smaller with I12 and I3 thanks to better simulation of AGB and AGPN at that time, indicating that the model could be of interest in deciding fertiliser-N doses during the crop cycle. Detailed data from factorial experiments can be used to test the model in more detail. Here we used two types of experiment. In the first the amount of applied N varied. In the second, the way a given N dose was split among applications was varied. Regardless of the calibration procedure, the model was never able to correctly simulate the response of grain N concentration to increasing applied N, or to different ways of splitting the applied N. It seems that the STICS model does not correctly take into account the effect of late N uptake on grain N redistribution. Our results indicate that a different representation of late N uptake, as in the AZODYN model  
 Many different approaches to crop model calibration have been proposed, and there is very little information in the literature that could help choose the best procedure. This study, which compared three different approaches to parameter estimation, illustrates the consequences of choosing different approaches. The three calibration procedures we compared gave quite different results. Specifically, some of the estimated parameter values were very variable, and the mean squared errors for certain variables were also very different. Thus the choice of calibration procedure is important in determining the results of the calibration. The choice of the target variables-those variables that appear in the goodness-of-fit criterion-in the calibration procedure also proved to be very important. With relatively minor exceptions, fit in our study improved for variables that were among the target variables of the procedure. For other variables, however, it could not easily be predicted whether fit would be improved or worsened. There were examples where the fit to non-target variables was very seriously degraded. One use of crop models is to predict variables that are difficult to measure. In the absence of measurements, these variables cannot be used as target variables. Our results suggest that there is no assurance that calibration improves the prediction of these variables. In this study, calibration was particularly effective when bias made a large contribution to MSE. When this was the case, calibration reduced very substantially bias and thus MSE. An initial question in this study was the interaction between improving the fit to dynamic variables (such as AGB, AGPN or LAI) and improving the fit to the final variables grain yield and grain N concentration. We obtained a better fit to the final variables when those final variables were the only target variables than when the dynamic variables were also used as target variables. For those interested in the dynamic variables and final variables, our results suggest that the dynamic variables should be included as target variables. The question remains of how exactly to calibrate using multiple target variables. In our case, having a single step with all the dynamic variables together as target variables was better than performing multiple steps, possibly because many of the multiple steps only used a subset of the data. As a practical result of our work, the three-step procedure I3 was identified as the most efficient in improving both the calibration and the independent evaluation of the STICS model when considering dynamic and final variables. In a recent study,  The main goal of calibration is to improve the predictive quality of a model. However, calibration can also, indirectly, give information about the details of model formulation. In the absence of calibration, one cannot know whether discrepancies between observed values and model results are due to unsuitable parameter values or alternatively to problems with model formulation. Calibration insures that one has the best possible parameter values. Remaining errors must be due to problems with model formulation. In the present study, this reasoning allowed us to conclude that the equations of the STICS model do not correctly take into account the effect of late season N on grain nitrogen concentration.
Increasing population pressures and associated eorts to intensify agriculture by long-term monocropping of subsistence cereal crops have depleted and degraded the natural resource base in many poorer regions of the world  Legume cover crops have been an important feature of farming systems both before and after the advent of chemical fertilizers  
 
 Twelve tropical, subtropical and temperate legumes of proven performance as cover crops  1 ). 
 Twelve photothermal environments were created using controlled-environment glasshouses each with separate day and night compartments to form an orthogonal factorial design of three mean diurnal air temperatures  
 A. QI et al. {SDP is short-day plant and LDP is long-day plant. For further details of SDP and LDP, see  photothermal regime had a thermoperiod of 11.5 h at the warmer temperature during natural daylight followed by 12.5 h in the cooler night compartments (from which natural light was completely excluded). Photoperiods longer than 11.5 h d 71 were provided by arti®cial lights within the night compartments using 100 W tungsten incandescent bulbs. Air temperatures were recorded at 10 min intervals using screened and aspirated thermocouples positioned above the leaf canopy in each photothermal regime. The actual mean air temperatures for the appropriate period of the investigation were calculated from these measurements and used in all analyses. Plant husbandry and culture Germination tests were conducted at a constant temperature of 26 8C on all seed stocks. More than 90% of seeds of each species germinated. Uniform seeds were selected for all species and seeds of Crotalaria juncea, Pueraria phaseoloides, Vicia sativa, Vicia dasycarpa and Trifolium resupinatum were scari®ed mechanically before sowing. All species were inoculated with a slurry containing the appropriate species of Rhizobia (Table  1 ) the day before sowing. Six seeds of each species were hand-sown on 2 April 1996 in plastic pots (0.23 m in diameter, 7 L capacity) with basal drainage holes. Three pots (replicates) were used for each species within each photothermal regime. The long-day plants were not sown at the 11.5 h d 71 photoperiod. Thus, there were only nine treatment combinations for these species. The growth medium comprised vermiculite (grade size DM), coarse washed sand, crushed (6 mm) gravel, and multi-purpose compost mixed in a ratio of 4:2:4:2 v/v, respectively. All medium components except for vermiculite were steam sterilized at 96 8C and 300 kPa for between 10 and 20 min before sowing. Pots were ®lled with growth medium, soaked with tap water and then left to drain the day before sowing. When seedlings in the various photothermal regimes reached the ®rst trifoliate leaf stage, they were thinned to one plant per pot for Canavalia ensiformis, Mucuna pruriens and Dolichos lablab and three uniform plants per pot for the other species. Using a complete nutrient solution containing 10 mg L 71 inorganic nitrogen  
 Individual pots were inspected daily to record the number of seedlings that had emerged. Then, one representative plant in each pot was chosen for subsequent leaf counts on the main stem. Leaf counting started 14 d after sowing at the coolest temperature and at 7 d after sowing at the other two temperatures and was continued for 28 d. All leaves which appeared after the cotyledons were counted. A leaf was de®ned as appeared when separate lea¯ets were ®rst seen (except Crotalaria juncea which produced only simple leaves, all other legume species produced compound leaves on the main stem). For V. sativa and V. dasycarpa, nodes were more distinguishable than the leaves on the main stem, and so it was the nodes which were counted rather than leaves. The area of the third leaf on the main stem of each replicate plant of all legume species grown at 26.8 8C under 14.5 h d 71 was measured at 35 d after sowing using a leaf area meter (Delta-T Devices Ltd). The third leaf of all species was fully expanded by this time. 
 From the counts of seedlings that had emerged, the duration in days from sowing to 50% seedling emergence (t 50% ) and the daily rate of seedling emergence (1/t 50% ) were estimated for each cover crop in each environment. The daily leaf appearance rate (leaves d 71 ) was calculated as the slope of the linear regression between the number of leaves on the main stem and days after sowing using the three replicate plants for each photothermal regime. The eects of photoperiod response group (short-day or long-day plants), legume species (or genotype of V. faba) within each photoperiod response group and photoperiod on 1/t 50% and leaves d 71 were analysed by comparing the eects of these variables on the relationship between either 1/t 50% or leaves d 71 and mean temperature. The intercept (a) and slope (b) regression coecients of each of these linear relationships were used to calculate the base temperature (T b = 7a/b, when 1/t 50% or leaves d 71 = 0) and the thermal time (y = 1/b). The standard error (s.e.) of T b was calculated using the method of  
 
 Seedling emergence was greater than 80% for all 12 cover crops under all Modelling temperature eects in legume cover crops photothermal conditions. For 11 cover crops, t 50% decreased curvilinearly with increase in air temperature with no visible dierences among photoperiods, for example, M. pruriens and V. sativa (Fig.  1 ). Linear relationships between 1/t 50% and temperature were found for all six short-day species and for ®ve of the six long-day ones (solid lines in Fig.  2  and 3 respectively). The eects of photoperiod response group, legume genotype, and their interactions on the relationships between 1/t 50% and temperature were signi®cant, but the eect of photoperiod was not. Estimates of 1/t 50% for V. dasycarpa were not aected by temperature (Fig.  3d ). The ®tted relationships shown in Fig.  2  and 3 are given in Table  2  together with the calculated values of T b and y. Individual simple linear relations for the six short-day species combined to account for 97.3% (d.f. = 60) of the total variation in 1/t 50% (solid lines in Fig.  2 ). These relationships ®tted with the best-®t estimate of T b common to all these species of 9 8C, but with dierent slopes (Table  2 ), accounted for 97.1%  (d.f. = 66) of the variation in 1/t 50% (broken lines in Fig.  2 ). Among the ®ve longday legume cover crops, the individual simple linear relationships combined to account for 97.7% (d.f. = 35) of the total variation in 1/t 50% (solid lines in Fig.  3 ). Regression lines for ®ve of the six long-day cover crops (excluding V. dasycarpa) with the best-®t common value of T b = 1 8C, but with dierent slopes (Table  2 ), accounted for 97.2% (d.f. = 40) of the variation in 1/t 50% (broken lines in Fig.  3 ). Thus, using a common estimate of T b for 1/t 50% for either short-or long-day cover Rate of leaf appearance on the main stem (leaves d 71 ) In general, the number of leaves produced by 28 days was greatest at 26.8 8C. However, V. sativa, V. dasycarpa and L. mutabilis produced the maximum number of leaves at 21.8 8C. At each temperature, the number of leaves on the main stem  {SDP is short-day plant and LDP is long-day plant; {best ®t common T b is 9 8C for short-day and 1 8C for long-day species; }no signi®cant temperature response was found. increased linearly with days after sowing in all species as exempli®ed by C. ensiformis and V. faba (Bolivia) (Fig.  4 ). In all six short-day species, leaves d 71 was a linear function of mean air temperature (Fig.  5 ). Linear relationships over the whole range of temperatures were also found in V. faba (Bolivia and Nepal) and in T. resupinatum (Fig.  6a, b, e ). However, leaves d 71 in V. sativa, V. dasycarpa and L. mutabilis were similar at 21.8 and 26.8 8C (Fig.  6c, d, f ). The eects of photoperiod response group, legume genotype, and their interactions on these relationships between leaves d 71 and temperature were signi®cant, but the eect of photoperiod was not. The estimated linear relations for all species are given in Table  3  together with the calculated T b and y. Fitting six individual linear relations within the six short-day species combined to account for 98.5% (d.f. = 60) of the total variation in leaves d 71 (solid lines in Fig.  5 ). Nonetheless, regression lines ®tted for the six short-day species with the best-®t common T b of 10 8C, but with dierent slopes (Table  3 ), accounted for 98.3% (d.f. = 66) of the variation in leaves d 71 (broken lines in Fig.  5 ). When data at the supra-optimal temperature (26.8 8C) were excluded for V. sativa, V. dasycarpa and L. mutabilis, comparison of regression lines between the six long-day cover crops revealed that V. dasycarpa was signi®cantly dierent from the other ®ve; that is, T b for leaves d 71 in V. dasycarpa was considerably higher than for the other long-day plants. The ®ve individual linear relationships for the ®ve long-day cover crops (excluding V. dasycarpa) combined to account for 98.5% (d.f. = 29) of the total variation in leaves d 71 (solid lines in Fig.  6 ). Nevertheless, these ®ve relationships when ®tted with the best-®t common T b of 72 8C, but with dierent slopes (Table  3 ), accounted for 98.2% (d.f. = 34) of the variation in leaves d 71 (broken lines in Fig.  6 ). Thus, using a common estimate of T b for leaves d 71 for either short-or long-day (except V. dasycarpa) cover crops also provided r 2 values and ®tted relationships almost identical to those obtained with the individual relationships for each cover crop.  {SDP is short-day plant and LDP is long-day plant; {best ®t common T b is 10 8C for short-day and 72 8C for long-day species; }only data at sub-optimal temperatures were included; }Vicia dasycarpa was signi®cantly dierent from other long-day species and was not included in the best-®t common T b analysis. Quantifying the eects of temperature on the rates of seedling emergence and leaf appearance could be simpli®ed because (with the notable exception of V. dasycarpa) within each photoperiod response group there was a common T b . The estimates of T b for seedling emergence rate were 9 8C for the short-day species, and 1 8C for long-day species (except V. dasycarpa). For the rate of leaf appearance these values were 10 8C for short-day species and 72 8C for long-day species (except V. dasycarpa). Thus, future modelling of seedling emergence and leaf appearance of legume cover crops in target environments could start by adopting these respective common values of T b .  Rapid development of ground cover may aid conservation of soil water and protect the soil from erosion  5  shows the calculated duration from sowing to seedling emergence at selected constant temperatures Modelling temperature eects in legume cover crops from 11 to 17 8C for the 11 cover crops. Such calculations assume that the quality of the seed is similar to that used in these investigations  5  is that the long-day legume species would be more suitable for temperate conditions as found at the more extreme latitudes or at higher elevations in the tropics and subtropics in order to achieve more rapid seedling emergence and earlier soil cover. The relatively cool supra-optimal temperatures for leaves d 71 in V. sativa, V. dasycarpa and L. mutabilis con®rm that these species would not be the most suitable for lowland tropical environments, but may have considerable potential in the tropical highlands (>1000 m). The considerable interspeci®c variation in rates of seedling emergence and leaf appearance, and individual leaf sizes, permits the multi-purpose use of these legume cover crops to be assessed for dierent environments. For example, legume species with relatively large leaves and rapid leaf production (that is, a small y requirement per leaf produced) would be more suitable for suppressing weeds and producing a large biomass in a short season. Mucuna pruriens and D. lablab grown in tropical environments may belong to this division of legume species. The widespread use of M. pruriens for control of Imperata cylindrica by farmers in Benin  available at https://www.cambridge.org/core/terms. https://doi.org/10.1017/S0014479799003099 Downloaded from https://www.cambridge.org/core. CIRAD DIC/DSI-INFODOC, on 27 Feb 2020 at 07:42:48, subject to the Cambridge Core terms of use, 
			 available at https://www.cambridge.org/core/terms. https://doi.org/10.1017/S0014479799003099 Downloaded from https://www.cambridge.org/core. CIRAD DIC/DSI-INFODOC, on 27 Feb 2020 at 07:42:48, subject to the Cambridge Core terms of use,
Ethanol produced from crop biomass has emerged as a potential contributor to a more renewable transportation energy mix. Driven by policy mandates and global markets, the global production of ethanol has increased more than fourfold between 2000 and 2009  Agronomical plot-scale models generally simulate the growth and biomass yield of sugarcane (both from a quantitative and qualitative standpoint) with good accuracy under different types of conditions  1 ). Wheat, maize, and soybean are the crops most often parameterized in agro-LSMs  1 ): Agro-IBIS, LPJml, JULES  1 ). Since agro-LSM models generally involve many more parameters than standard land-surface models, some calibration is required prior to running them on a large scale. This step raises two issues regarding computing time and application scale. Regarding the first point, the high number of parameters involved (several dozen) precludes the use of factorial runs (whereby each parameter is varied one at a time), which would be too computer intensive. Calibration may be facilitated by carrying out a preliminary sensitivity analysis (SA) with the aim of identifying the most important parameters of the model and restricting optimization to this limited subset of parameters. Several families of SA techniques have been developed, which may be categorized based on several features such as global or local, quantitative or qualitative, dependent on the model's structure. Here, we used the method of Morris  The second problem faced when calibrating parameters of an agro-LSM has to do with the different scales of application. Site-level parameterization is a way of evaluating LSM models, which allows quantifying model uncertainties and prioritizing possible improvements  In the next section, we describe ORCHIDEE-STICS and the sugarcane field trial sites calibration and validation data as well as the sensitivity analysis and the calibration method (adjustment of the parameters). Then, we describe the results of the sensitivity analysis and calibration. Finally, the last section discusses the residual bias in the simulations after calibration. 
 
 ORCHIDEE-STICS simulates crop growth in a mechanistic and dynamic framework at regional to global scales  1 . OR-CHIDEE is used for carbon fluxes and pools, as well as water and energy balance and STICS for phenology and LAI, the main focus of this study. Thus, STICS calculates the growth of sugarcane on a daily time step (phenology, leaf area dynamics, root dynamics, nitrogen status, water balance, biomass) based on meteorological data, crop management and soil parameters, and given generic and crop-specific parameters. As a generic model, the strength of STICS is its ability to simulate different crops with the same set of formalisms through the establishment of analogies. The concepts are therefore adjusted to some extent from one crop to another. Thus, for sugarcane, the filling of elements to be harvested refers to the accumulation of sucrose in the internodes of the cane but for another crop it could refer to the growth of the grains or the fruits. Another example, a specificity of sugarcane is that it is an indeterminate crop  Fig.  1  Description of the ORCHIDEE-STICS coupling showing the input data, variables exchanged between the model's components and output variables. The two components of the model (shaded) are fed input data (dashed arrows) and communicate between each other through a few variables (solid arrows). Both models require meteorological forcing data at hourly time step (interpolated from 6-hourly forcing data files). STICS also requires data describing the crop management (sugarcane variety, sowing date, irrigation, and fertilization), and ORCHIDEE requires basic soil data (soil texture and depth). Valade, N. Vuichard, P. Ciais, N. Viovy, F. Marin, N. Huth, J-F. Martin e, in preparation) addresses the full uncertainty budget of the coupled ORCHIDEE-STICS model with crop biomass as a target variable. 
 Eight data sets were collated from five field trial sites in Australia (Ayr, 3 years; Ingham, 2 years; Grafton, 1 year) and two sites on the island of La R eunion (Colimac ßons, 1 year; Tirano, 1 year), providing a gradient of climatic conditions (Fig.  2 ). The Australian sites are located in the sugarcane cultivation belt on the East coast of the continent. The Grafton site has a temperate climate  The locations and management characteristics of the experimental sites are given in Table  2 . All the sites received irrigation and fertilization inputs, so that the model could be parameterized under optimal growing conditions. For the rest of the study, each combination of site, year and treatment is called 'site' and named with a convention of 'site-year', for example, 'Ayr 92-93' for the Ayr field trial data during the 1992-1993 growing season. At each site, crop biomass and LAI were measured six to eleven times during the growing season. When replicate plots were available, we pooled the corresponding observations. 
 At regional scales, it is difficult to know and prescribe with accuracy the spatial distribution of soil properties with the level of detail required by the STICS crop model (water holding capacity, drainage class, rooting depth). We thus performed several test runs of STICS with different soil configurations and found that the model's predictions of LAI was only weakly impacted by the soil characteristicsin particular because the crops were irrigated and fertilized. We therefore used the same soil configuration for all sites (see Table  3  for soil characteristics). 
 ORCHIDEE-STICS requires hourly meteorological data that are usually interpolated from 6-hourly forcing files. We need to use the best possible meteorological forcing for the model at each site, to prevent the aliasing of climate forcing bias to parameter estimation bias. We thus gathered weather station measurements of precipitation, air temperature, and solar radiation (arguably, the best possible forcing) close to each site. For Australia, the data were downloaded from the website of the Australian Bureau of Meteorology (BOM), and for La Reunion, they were obtained from stations close to the field sites. However, these weather station data cannot be directly used to force ORCHIDEE-STICS, because (i) additional variables are required by the model (specific humidity, wind speed, pressure, and long wave downward radiation), and (ii) the station data were only available at a daily time step. We combined the local station measurements with numerical weather prediction globally gridded data from the ECMWF ERA-Interim © 2013 Blackwell Publishing Ltd, GCB Bioenergy, 6, 606-620 C A L I B R A T I O N O F A M O D E L O F S U G A R C AN E G R O W T H 609 reanalysis product  The correction of the bias between the ERA-Interim and station data was based on a ratio-based algorithm for precipitation and solar radiation fields, and upon a difference-based algorithm for temperature, to conserve the diurnal amplitude cycle. The bias correction led to an important reduction in the root mean squared error (RMSE), of 1.8 °C for daily air temperature, 422.6 mm for cumulative precipitation, 17.4 MJ m À2 for daily solar radiation (Table  S1 ). 
 The Morris method  P i þ D; . . .Þ À Yð. . .; P i ; . . .Þ D ð1Þ The Morris method defines two sensitivity indices: l*, the average of elementary effects' absolute values, and r, their standard deviation. The value of l* provides information about the importance of each parameter (the larger the value of l*, the more important the parameter) which defines a ranking for multiple parameters. The larger the value of r, the more nonlinearities are involved. To calculate the Morris indices, all the elementary effects are calculated at different points in the space of the parameters. The settings of the parameter screening (the number of levels, p, and the number of trajectories, r) are left to the user's choice. A requirement is that r must be large enough compared to p, so that all levels are sufficiently explored. According to  We performed two sensitivity analyses using the Morris method based on the variable of the maximum seasonal value of LAI during one growing season. Not all the parameters in STICS need to be included in the SA, because some parameters are either not used for the sugarcane application of the model or because they are known to have little or no effect on LAI  4 ). Of these 50 parameters, twelve are soilrelated (8) or general (4) generic plant parameters (applying to all species), while the others are specific to sugarcane, yield (10), biomass growth (5), phenological stages (10), nitrogen (1),   5 ), and root growth (4). The selection of a range of variation allowed for each parameter is of importance because it impacts the results of the SA. We selected upper and lower bound values based on previous work with STICS for sugarcane  S2 ). Thus, we set the value of r to 20 repetitions to limit computational costs. Four of the sites were randomly selected among the eight available. The SA was carried out for each of the four sites separately with Morris settings of p = 6 levels and r = 20 iterations, therefore requiring (50+1)*20 = 1020 runs per site. 
 The number of parameters chosen for the calibration results from a trade-off between computation costs and improved fit to the data. Because the goal of this study is to obtain a multisite calibration, our selection of the most important parameters retained for calibration from the Morris sensitivity analysis is constrained by two criteria: the importance of a parameter at all the sites, and the limited amount of nonlinearities and/or interactions associated with this parameter. The calibration of STICS for the LAI was therefore performed on the three most sensitive parameters only, with a simple factorial method, whereby the model was run for all possible combinations of the three parameters within predefined ranges. Consistent with our approach  The choice of the scoring function to select the best estimate of the most important parameters is not straightforward  We define below all three objective functions for site s, at times t j . Observed and simulated LAI are, respectively, referred to as 'obs' and 'run'. n is the number of observations, for the observed LAI (respectively, simulated LAI). RMSE ðsÞ ¼ ffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffi ffi P n j¼1 obs s; t j À Á À run À Á 2 n v u u u t ð2Þ is defined as follows FM ðsÞ ¼ 1 À FMT ðsÞ ¼ 1 À P n j¼1 minfobs s; t j À Á ; run s; t j À Á g P n j¼1 maxfobs s; t j À Á ; run s; t j À Á g ð3Þ Jðs; P 1 ; P 2 ; P 3 Þ ¼ ðP 1 À P 1prior Þ 2 r 2 p1 þ ðP 2 À P 2prior Þ 2 r 2 p2 þ ðP 3 À P 3prior Þ 2 r 2 p3 þ 1 n X n j¼1 ðrunðs; t j Þ À obsðs; t j ÞÞ 2 r 2 obs ð4Þ The figure of merit in time (FMT) is usually defined as the ratio of overlapping between the observed and simulated LAI curves, that is, the area defined by the union below the two curves divided by the area defined by their intersection  The RMSE and the J function are quadratic error functions [Eqns (2) and (  4 )]. They quantify the distance between modeled and observed LAI, but with an extra term in the Bayesian function J to represent the quadratic distance between optimum and prior parameter value. By adding a prior term in the J scoring function, we put weight to a specific location in the parameters space based on the most likely value of the parameter (i.e., the prior). The intent of the calibration is to minimize each of the FM, RMSE, and J functions, to determine a set of parameters that minimizes a distance between observed and modeled LAI. 
 Cross-validation is performed to evaluate the dependence of the calibration to the choice of sites. For this, we use a leaveone-out method where the same calibration is performed using different combinations of sites, each with one site being removed and therefore used for validation purposes. © 2013 Blackwell Publishing Ltd, GCB Bioenergy, 6, 606-620  C A L I B R A T I O N O F A M O D E L O F S U G A R C AN E G R O W T H 611 
 
 Here, we used maximum LAI during the annual growth cycle as a target variable to define the most sensitive parameters. Figure  3a-d  shows the results of the Morris sensitivity analysis at the four sites with l* (elementary effects mean of absolute values) as x-axis and r (elementary effects standard deviation) as y-axis. Figure  3e  displays the ranking of all parameters by decreasing order of importance (at the four sites) for their influence on l*. The important parameters stand out from the Morris sensitivity analysis based on their l* with little variability from site to site, especially for the three most important parameters whose roles and related equations are explained in Fig. 4  3a-d : highest l* and a relatively low r revealing a first order effect on maximum LAI). This parameter intervenes in the calculation of LAI to limit the maximum daily increment of foliage per degree-day (number of degrees that separate actual temperature from a minimum temperature threshold; see Fig.  4 ). A higher value of d max LAI allows a faster growth of LAI during the first stage of the crop development. Following d max LAI in importance, two other parameters, b dens and INN min have a high impact on l*. The b dens parameter corresponds to a critical plant density below which there is no competition between individual plants to form LAI (Fig.  4 ). The parameter INN min is a threshold for the nitrogen nutrition index (INN) of the crop, which controls the sensitivity of the crop to nitrogen stress and impacts LAI in an indirect way. This parameter is associated with nonlinearities in the response of LAI to parameters as shown by the high r values. Because of the nonlinearity of the response of LAI to Development stages are LEV: emergence, AMF: end of juvenile phase, DRP: beginning of harvested elements filling, MAT: physiological maturity, LAX: maximum leaf area index  © 2013 Blackwell Publishing Ltd, GCB Bioenergy, 6, 606-620 C A L I B R A T I O N O F A M O D E L O F S U G A R C AN E G R O W T H 613 this parameter, only a few key values of INN min are included in the calibration procedure, like in  
 The   7(a-h ). The optimum parameter sets obtained with the three scoring functions are hereafter called p-RMSE, p-FM, and p-J. Overall, the date of LAI emergence was generally well reproduced by STICS (Fig.  7 ). Later during the crop foliar development, different growth trajectories and onsets of senescence were obtained from the different parameter couples, leading to different trajectories of LAI. None of the three couples of optimal parameters led to a better simulation at all sites simultaneously. As an example, the p-FM couple of parameters favored a LAI growth with a very late LAI senescence, whereas the p-RMSE couple resulted in an earlier than observed decrease in LAI. For this reason, the choice of a best (i.e., most robust) scoring function is not trivial. We introduce an additional criterion for the selection of a robust scoring function that the parameter calibration should be as independent as possible from the set of sites used for calibration. The selection of a robust scoring function is done through a cross-site validation, as explained below.   t r e f H in it f 3 H in it f 2 r e m o b il N o r g N in it f 1 H in it f 1 s b v N in it f 2 N in it f 3 d u r e e f r u it t d m a x z la b o u r e f c r o ij u v n b o it e t e o p t d if f v it ir a z o t c m a x µ * µ * µ * µ * (a) (e) (b) (c) (d 
 We performed a leave-one-out cross-validation to assess the robustness of the calibration for the three scoring functions (Fig.  8 ). In Fig.  8 , each group of adjacent bars represents the model-data misfit at one site for nine possible combinations of sites used for calibration (all of the eight sites used, or one site removed at a time being used as cross-validation). The misfits shown in Fig.  8  are very different between the scoring functions. For example, the RMSE at site Ayr 92-93 is 25% higher when this site is left out for calibration. The calibration based on J is found to be the most site-dependent (Fig.  8c ), with a large variation in the misfit depending on which sites are excluded from the calibration. With the J scoring function (Fig.  8c ) for instance, the use of Colimac ßons 94-95 as a calibration site impacts most of the misfits of optimized LAI at other sites. When Colimac ßons 94-95 is removed from the calibration, seven sites out of eight had a much lower score (higher J), whereas the Ayr 92-93 site had a much better score (lower J). With the RMSE func-tion, the Ayr 92-93 site has the largest impact on the calibration, with its own score being severely degraded (higher RMSE) where it is excluded, whereas five sites out of eight have a lower RMSE when Ayr 92-93 was removed. With the FM function (Fig.  8b ), excluding the two Ingham sites from the calibration has a large influence on the misfit at those sites but only a slight impact at the other sites. The RMSE and FM functions have similar results as far as cross-validation is concerned with a relative good stability of the calibration regardless of the sites combinations used. However, because of the large impact of the exclusion of Ayr 92-93 at this site, we conclude that the use of the FM as a scoring function is more robust than the two other functions, and therefore, parameters determined from this approach will be chosen for future applications of the ORCHIDEE-STICS model to sugarcane. With the calibration performed using the FM scoring function, we obtain a multisite average figure of merit score (average of the FM-scores at each site) of 79% of agreement instead of 67% before calibration. © 2013 Blackwell Publishing Ltd, GCB Bioenergy, 6, 606-620 C A L I B R A T I O N O F A M O D E L O F S U G A R C AN E G R O W T H 615 
 A successful and robust multisite calibration relies on the assumption that the same model can be improved (i.e., systematic errors reduced) at different sites through the adjustment of few parameters only. For our purposes of regional applications of the model, for instance to estimate regional sugarcane yields, we need to avoid local fine-tuning of a large number of parameters. Parameters d max LAI , b dens and INN min were the top most influential parameters for LAI simulations at the eight sites in ORCHIDEE-STICS, with d max LAI being far more important. These three parameters were already among those identified as critical for STICS applied to maize and wheat  After calibration of the three most important parameters determined from the Morris sensitivity analysis, the overall simulation of LAI is improved, but a residual error remains mainly in the late LAI development cycle, which may arise either from parameter values (discussed in this article), but also from forcing data and model structure (e.g., other factors that influence the LAI during the late development phase not included in STICS). Part of the model error due to internal parameters has been addressed in this article. Here, only three parameters were calibrated based on the intersite consistency of model sensitivity to these parameters. Another issue related to the internal model parameters setting is that by searching a common set of parameter values to apply to all sites, we assume that all crops are of the same variety and type (all crops are considered to be planted each year, as opposed to real-field conditions where sugarcane is often ratooned, i.e., cut and left in the soil to grow again the following year), which in reality may differ from one field to another and one region to another. For example, in this study, all Australian sites are planted with variety Q117 (or R570 in La Reunion), except Ayr 91-92, which could partly explain the poor results after calibration at that site along with other factors such as an over-detected water stress (Table  2 ). Just like variety differences, environmental conditions and accuracy of forcing data add uncertainty to the simulation and are responsible for a fraction of the residual error. In particular, using a generic soil physics parameterization (depth, texture, water holding parameters) ignores local specificities that are determinant for describing accurately soil water content, water availability to plants, and therefore root growth and water stress. The identification of the limitation of the nitrogen nutrition index as the second parameter exerting the most influence on LAI simulation also highlights the need for a more detailed and thorough description of soil conditions. However, the type of data needed, such as soil carbon content, organic nitrogen content, or minimum soil humidity exploitable by the plant, is not easily retrievable during crop growth experiments and is therefore not often available to constrain models, even for site-level simulations. A complete account of the soil's characteristics however requires data about the nature of the land at this site but also about the previous years' management practices, that are difficult to gather at regional level. Leaf area index is an indicator of crop development and was considered the only output variable in this study. However, at the ecosystem level, other variables driven by crop development are also of interest, such as biomass or net primary productivity, which are controlled by different parameters and processes than LAI. The calibration of LAI alone is not sufficient for a good simulation of other variables by the model, but it is a necessary pre-requisite for the model to provide good estimates of plant growth and interactions with its local environment and climate. © 2013 Blackwell Publishing Ltd, GCB Bioenergy, 6, 606-620
In order to face the global demands for increased food, fiber and energy, cropping areas will need to be expanded and areas already cultivated will need to be intensified  Around 25,000 ha are cultivated with sugarcane across Réunion, representing ~58% of agricultural areas  Yield gap (YG) analysis, based on the differences between different crop yield types, provides a basis for identifying the main factors affecting crop yield and providing valuable information to guide the interventions of growers, researchers, public agencies and stakeholders  Different studies around the world, using crop simulation models for determining the yield gap, assessed how yield gap could vary over time and space in sugarcane plantations. For example, some studies showed that the yield gap could differ between rainfed and irrigated areas  Given that yield gap studies are of high importance for guiding strategic actions to improve crop yields, the objective of our study was i) to assess the cane yield variability over time and space in Réunion, and understanding which factors are mainly affecting yield, and ii) to assess the magnitude of sugarcane yield gaps on the island. 
 
 To simulate crop growth at field scale across Réunion, we used soil, climatic and cane management data. Based on the annual precipitation and altitude range (Figure  1a ,b), 33 climatic areas were defined. These maps were obtained through the AWARE Atlas ( 1c ) was also obtained from the AWARE Atlas. Réunion is divided into five agro-climatic zones (Figure  2 ). Two of them are mainly rainfed: Beaufonds (East part of the island) and Bois Rouge (North East), while two others are irrigated for about 50% of the area: Savanna (North West) and Le Gol (South West). One is an intermediary zone with 20% of the area being irrigated: Grand Bois (South). Detailed identification of 10,403 cane fields was made across Réunion (Figure  1d ) combining a remote-sensing approach and the use of databases from several institutes (Direction de l'Alimentation, de l'Agriculture et de la Forêt, DAAF and Centre Technique Interprofessionnel de la Canne et du Sucre, CTICS). Each cane field was associated with a planted area (m²), an irrigation management (drip or spray irrigation when irrigated) and planted cane cultivars. The irrigation management was obtained from the CTICS database (2008). When not identified, the irrigation management was assumed to be a spray irrigation in Savanna, Le Gol and Grands Bois, and was assumed not to be irrigated in the east part of the island (Beaufonds and Bois Rouge). The cane cultivars were obtained from the DAAF database in 2017. Between 20 and 40% of cane fields were not identified with a given cane cultivar due to a lack of information. In that case, we assumed that it was planted to R570, cultivar that can be grown in different climates and was historically (until recent years) the major cultivar in Réunion.   
 The MOSICAS model  
 Cane cultivars were calibrated using the ECOFI database. ECOFI  3 ): leaf area index (LAI), aboveground dry and fresh mass, stalk dry and fresh mass, sugar yield, as well as aboveground and stalk water content. The cultivars R570, R579, R585 and R586 were calibrated using 20, 3, 9 and 9 ratoon trials respectively. I n total, 16 parameters were calibrated. The LAI base temperature of three other cultivars (R581, R582 and R583) were obtained from literature as used in the web version of the model ( 
 Actual fresh cane yield and the date of half-way through the cane harvest season were obtained from sugarcane industries from 1998 to 2014 at the five regional scales. To match observations, sugarcane growth was simulated using the MOSICAS model in each field from 1998 to 2014. As an approximation, all cane fields across Réunion were assumed to be ratoon crops as no information on plant cane was available. In each agro-climatic zone, all fields were assumed to have the same harvest date, defined as the date of half harvest. Irrigation management was assumed to be weekly (12,000 m 3 /ha/year) with an efficiency of 1 for drip irrigation and 0.9 for spray irrigation. A CERES-type water balance was used in the MOSICAS model, with five soil layers with identical welting point, field capacity and saturation, to avoid differences in terms of water drainage. To take into account the difference of soil water holding capacity (Figure  1c ), the soil depth was adjusted to match this value. Two types of simulations were performed: cane growth at the thermoradiative potential (not taking water stress into account) and cane growth taking water stress into account. The MOSICAS model does not take fertilizer stress into account or other biotic stresses such as weed pressure. All components of cane growth were simulated, but only the fresh stalk yield was used in this study and defined as "cane yield". Cane yield at the regional scale was calculated as the average cane yield at the field scale weighted by the field planted areas.  
 
 Water-limited simulated cane yield showed high variability over years, ranging from 63 to 181 t/ha at the regional scale (Figure  4a ). Actual cane yield presented a similar dynamic but with a much lower amplitude. For example, the high water-limited cane yield simulated between 2009 and 2012 corresponded to a slight increase in actual cane yield. On average, the simulations overestimated the cane yield by 62% (Figure  4b ). Nevertheless, the average percentage error was different among agro-climatic zones. The irrigated zones, Savanna and Le Gol, had the lowest error (56 and 34%, respectively) while the rainfed zones, Beaufonds and Bois Rouge, had the highest error (74 and 96%, respectively). The assessed yield gap (i.e. the difference between thermoradiative potential cane yield and actual cane yield) over Réunion in our study was 95 t/ha on average (ranging from 67 to 132.6 t/ha depending on the years and zones). In this study, all fields were assumed to be ratoon crop which could slightly increase the yield gap at the regional scale. Nevertheless, this yield gap was of a similar magnitude to previous studies.  
 The variance of water-limited cane yield was evaluated over time and space (Figure  5 ). In total, climatic factors explained around 50% of field-scale variability (Figure  5a ), of which 24, 14 and 5% could be attributed to precipitation, global radiation and temperature, respectively. Field cane yield was also strongly influenced by cane cultivar and soil water-holding capacity (19 and 5% of variance, respectively). Our results were similar to previous studies performed in Brazil by  5b ) but rather by water availability (23%). Such results indicated that the temporal variability was essentially influenced by annual precipitation among the climatic factors, and a "good year" in terms of cane production was strongly linked to water availability. In a context of adoption of information technology and precision agriculture, it is becoming crucial to identify the factors impacting cane yield variations. In particular, more attention must be paid to low-scale factors. For example, some recent studies have highlighted the strong influence of chemical soil properties (e.g. organic matter or cation exchange capacities) on cane yield variations  Similarly, a greater attention should be paid to random and extreme events such as storms or hurricanes and their influence in terms of cane yield variability, especially in Réunion where such events are frequent.  
 On average the yield gap due to water deficit was 49.3 t/ha (52% of the total yield gap, Figure  6b ) and the yield gap due to crop management and factors not taken into account in our modeling approach (e.g. extreme climatic events) was assessed as 45.4 t/ha (Figure  6c ). By comparison, in Brazil the yield gap due to water deficit was assessed as the main proportion of the total yield gap (73%, Dias and Senthelos 2018). Nevertheless, our results showed that the proportion of the yield gap due to water deficit and crop management was strongly variable. The average proportion of the yield gap due to water deficit was 29% higher in rainfed fields than in irrigated ones, which might be expected. However, even in irrigated fields, the yield gap due to water deficit was still predicted as 45 t/ha on average due to the inability to meet the total water demand of the crop. Similar results were observed in Mauritius  6c ) than in irrigated zones. However, the yield gap due to water deficit in the different zones was also strongly variable from one year to the next (Figure  3 ). Such difference between regions indicated the need to investigate the impact of non-climatic factors on gap yield in Réunion. After the same observation in South Africa, Van den Berg and Singels (2013) qualitatively evaluated other factors likely to cause suboptimal production such as pests, inadequate nutrition or inadequate replanting. They highlighted the importance of considering socioeconomic conditions and showed that the yield gap due to crop management was twice higher for small-scale growers than large-scale ones. The importance of inadequate nutrition was also highlighted in southern China by  
 The MOSICAS model allowed the sugarcane yield gap to be determined in different agro-climatic zones of Réunion and its main causes (water deficit and crop management). The main climatic cause of sugarcane yield variability was due to water deficit throughout the crop cycle. Therefore, the use of adequate irrigation and drought-tolerant cultivars for water-limited environments are important actions to minimize the yield gap. The yield gap due to crop management depends on the agro-climatic zone and ranges from 21 to 62% of the total yield gap in Réunion. Consequently, the non-climatic drivers of the yield gap should be further investigated to separate their potential causes (fertilization, pests, extreme events) in order to propose adequate and effective management measures to improve cane yield. By reducing the sugarcane yield gap caused by crop management, the cane production could be maintained even in a context where there has been a reduction of planted areas, such as in Réunion.
Current cropping systems in Europe are characterized by high productivity but rely on simplification of crop rotations and high level of synthetic inputs which has led to soil, water and air pollution and loss of biodiversity (e.g.  The STICS model is a generic dynamic soil-crop model that has been used to assess the agronomic and environmental performances of crop rotations and to support the design of innovative cropping systems in a wide range of agro-pedo-climatic conditions  Faba bean (Vicia Faba L.) is the second most widely grown European grain legumes  Winter faba bean experiments were conducted in southwestern France over several growing seasons  
 2.1. STICS, a soil-crop model 
 The soil-crop model (as well as cropping system model) STICS  Inputs to the model include daily weather information (minimum and maximum temperature, rainfall, wind and global radiation), soil characteristics (per-layer initial soil water and mineral N content, field capacity and wilting point) and crop/soil management (date and depth of planting, planting density, soil tillage, residues management, organic and mineral fertilisation, irrigation). Crops are defined by species parameters, ecophysiological options (e.g. effect of photoperiod and/or cold requirements on crop phenology, potential radiation use efficiency) and cultivar specific parameters (e.g. flowering precocity, maximum number of grains per m 2 ). Crop temperature (calculated from weather variables) and photoperiod drive crop phenology. The model dynamically simulates (i) development of the root system that takes up N and water according to root density over the whole soil profile and (ii) the establishment of the canopy that transpires water and intercepts light to produce the crop biomass. Two processes account for yield formation in the model: (i) setting of grain number per square meter and (ii) accumulation of biomass in grain. The number of grains before the start of grain filling is a function of: (i) the number of days before the beginning of grain filling during which grain number is determined (crop parameter), (ii) the mean canopy growth rate during this phase (calculated by the model), (iii) the sensitivity of grain onset to growth conditions (crop parameter) and (iv) the maximum number of grain (crop parameter). Dry matter accumulation in grains is calculated by applying a dynamic harvest index (grain to shoot biomass ratio) to the dry weight of the plant  The model also accounts for soil water and N dynamics. Net N mineralization from crop residues and soil organic matter (affected by clay and CaCO 3 content in the topsoil and governed by soil moisture and temperature), nitrification (affected by pH in the topsoil), nitrate leaching and ammonia and nitrous oxide gaseous emissions are daily simulated as well as vertical water drainage when field capacity is exceeded. STICS also simulates N acquisition by N 2 fixation for legumes. Nodule formation is a function of soil thermal time and sets the potential fixation. Actual N 2 fixation then depends on shoot growth rate (C limitation for N 2 fixation), soil temperature, soil moisture, and a nitrate inhibition effect linked with nitrate-N concentration in the nodulation layer (see Section 2.1.2). The equations governing physical and biological processes occurring in the soil/crop system are based on a unique set of general parameters. Model parameters and equations describing yield formation are of particular interest in this study and are described in details in Table  S2 . An exhaustive description of inputs, equations and default parameter values of the STICS model is given in  
 Physical and biological processes are successively addressed in two types of equations: 1) the calculation of the potential flux or rate of the process and 2) the effect of the environmental or crop related limiting factors. Four stress factors can indirectly affect grain yield through plant growth. The first is a water stress factor that affects radiation use efficiency and plant transpiration, and is computed as the ratio of actual evapotranspiration over potential evapotranspiration. Potential transpiration is function of Leaf Area Index (LAI) and daily potential Penman evapotranspiration, as calculated by the model. Actual transpiration is calculated as the minimum between water soil supply and maximal crop demand. The second stress factor is a Nitrogen stress that affects i) LAI increase, ii) radiation use efficiency and iii) possibly senescence. The N stress index is computed as the ratio of actual Nitrogen concentration over Critical crop N concentration. Critical crop N concentration is the minimum N concentration that allow to maximise biomass production  For legumes, STICS also calculates water, heat, anoxia and nitrogen stress factors for N 2 fixation. The water deficit factor for N 2 fixation is the proportion of soil layers in the nodulation area (defined by the crop parameter "profnod", set to 30 cm in our study) for which moisture is above wilting point. The heat stress factor for N 2 fixation increases and is maximal when soil temperature in nodulation zone exceeds optimal and maximal temperature thresholds. Nitrogen stress for N 2 fixation increases and is maximal when the mean amount of mineral nitrogen in the nodulation area exceeds an optimal or maximal N concentration threshold. Eventually, anoxia stress factor for N 2 fixation increases with the proportion of soil layers in anaerobic conditions. Stress factors are computed daily and vary between 0 (complete stress) and 1 (no stress). Model parameters and equations used to compute water stress factor and water deficit factor for N 2 fixation are of particular interest in this study and are described in details in Table  S1 . The exhaustive description of the equations and parameters governing the stresses definition can be found in  
 
 The experimental data was collected in south of France at the experimental sites of INRA in Auzeville (43°31′N 1°28′E), and of CREAB-MP in Auch (43°38′N 0°36′E) during seven growing seasons in each site. In both sites, the climate is oceanic temperate under mediterranean influence and characterized by summer droughts and cool wet winters. Cumulative global radiation, growing degree-days and rainfall during crop growth (November-July), averaged across growing seasons, were similar in Auch and Auzeville (Table  1 ). Experimental plots were in the valley on deep (i.e. average maximum rooting depth of 135 cm) clayloamy soils in Auzeville and on the hillside on shallow (i.e. average maximum rooting depth of 70 cm) clay loamy soils in Auch. As a result, average maximum available water to maximum rooting depth (i.e. soil water content at field capacity minus soil water content at wilting point) was higher in Auzeville (167 mm) than in Auch (64 mm) (Table  1 ). Cropping systems strongly differed between experimental sites. In Auzeville, the data originated from two distinct types of experiments. The first type was annual experiments with replicated plots (1.62 m wide × 13 m long) of sole faba bean (see  2 ) to ensure satisfactory crop establishment. The considered faba bean cultivars were Castel and Irena (Table  2 ). These winter-type cultivars sown between November and January have similar phenology and yield potential  2 ). Site-year-management units covering a broad range of soil types, growing seasons and management situations  2 ). The remaining units, differing in growing season and/or management (compared with calibration dataset) formed the evaluation dataset (Table  2 ). 
 Faba bean development stages were recorded in the annual experiments in Auzeville following BBCH scale  In each experimental field, soil texture and pH were measured over the whole soil profile (0-120 cm). Soil mineral N and water content were measured by layers of 30 cm three times per year: (1) end of autumn prior to sowing, (2) mid-winter and (3) at harvest. Crop variables such as LAI, above-ground biomass, fixed N 2 and total accumulated N, grain yield and grain N content were measured from 1 to 5 times depending on site, year and experiment  (Table 2):  (1) in mid-March i.e. wheat '1 cm ear' stage, (2) in mid-April, i.e. legume flowering, (3) in mid-may i.e. wheat flowering, (4) in early June i.e. wheat ripening, and (5) in early July, i.e. legume maturity. At each measurement, six central rows 0.5 m long (annual experiments in Auzeville), six m 2 (long term cropping system experiment in Auzeville) and nine subplots of two rows 1 m long (in Auch) were harvested by cutting plants at the soil surface. In the annual experiments in Auzeville, a LI-3100 planimeter (LI-COR, Lincoln, NE) was used to determine green leaf area. In all experiments, plant biomass samples were dried at 80 °C for 48 h and weighted. At maturity, plants were threshed to determine grain yield and harvest index. Above-ground plant and grain N concentration were determined on finely ground plant material with the Dumas combustion method using a Leco-2000 analyzer (LECO, St. Joseph, MI, US). In Auzeville, N 2 fixation ratio, i.e. the proportion of plant N derived from atmosphere (%Ndfa) was determined using the 15 N natural abundance method  = × - - δ N δ N δ N β %Ndfa 100 15 15 15 ref fababean ref (1) where δ 15 N is the deviation from the international standard of atmospheric N 2 (0.3663% 15 N) for faba bean (δ 15 N faba bean ) and for the reference crop (δ 15 N ref ), and β is the δ 15 N of shoots of faba bean fully dependent upon N 2 fixation, assumed equal to -0.63‰  2 ) using a rotary scanner-based minirhizotron system (CI-600, CID Bio-science, Camas, WA, USA) six times during crop growth (16 and 28 March, 12 April, 6 May, 3 June, 17 July). 
 The calibration consisted in choosing the formalisms and corresponding parameters involved in the simulation of crop phenology, leaf area and root system expansion, biomass accumulation, biological nitrogen fixation, nitrogen uptake and grain yield elaboration. The parameterization procedure included three steps (Fig.  1 ). The first step was a literature review to select the options offered by the model to simulate the different crop processes and determine existing parameter values. The second step corresponded to the determination of parameters from experimental data by direct measurement or observation (phenology). The last step consisted in a mathematical optimisation based on the approach developed by  3 ). For each stage, sensitivity analysis  3 ). Stage-specific target variables were selected: (i) dates of key development stages (emergence, end of juvenile phase, beginning of grain filling and physiological maturity), (ii) dynamic variables (Leaf Area Index, above-ground biomass, fixed N and total plant N, overall soil moisture content and overall soil N content) and (iii) variables at 
 Description of the Site-Year-Management units in the calibration and evaluation datasets. LAI: Leaf Area Index, AGPN: above-ground plant N, AGB: above-ground biomass, GY: grain yield, GNC: grain N content, SN: Soil N content over the entire profile, SWC: soil water content over the entire profile.  crop maturity (yield components, grain yield and grain N content) (Table  3 ). The calibration stages were carried out by using the software package OptimiSTICS  ∑ = ∑ - C n O P θ 1 [ () ] v s s i s i s i , , 2 (2) Where v is the target variable, s is the site-year-management unit and n s is the number of measurements in s, O s,i is the measured value in site-year-management s on the ith date and P s,i (θ) is the corresponding simulated value with the parameter set θ. This average squared error for a given target variable was minimised using a simplex algorithm. For each optimised parameter, lower and upper limits corresponding to reasonable physiological values were fixed based on literature and expert knowledge (Table  3 ). The optimised parameter values at a given stage were the default values of the next steps. The initial plant parameters before optimisation were taken from the spring pea plant file  Soil analysis informed the input parameters required for soil in STICS. Moisture at field capacity and wilting point were first obtained using pedo-transfer functions  2 ) were used to create management files used for each simulation. Initial soil mineral nitrogen (nitrate ammonium) and water content were measured for each experiment and set between 13 and 120 kg N ha -1 and 162 and 342 mm respectively, depending on the different Site-year-management units (Table  2 ). 
 Model performance (with optimised parameter set) was evaluated graphically and quantified by calculating Mean Bias Error (MBE) and its relative value (rMBE), Model Efficiency (EF), Root Mean Square Error (RMSE) and its relative value (rRMSE): ∑ = - = MBE n P O 1 ( ) i n i i 1 (3) = × rMBE MBE O ¯100 (4) = - ∑ - ∑ - = = EF O P O O 1 ( ) ( ¯) i n i i i n i 1 2 1 2 (5) ∑ = - = RMSE n O P 1 ( ) i n i i 1 2 (6) = × rRMSE RMSE O ¯100 (7) where O i and P i are the observed and simulated values for the i th measurement, n is the number of observations and O ¯is the mean of the observed values. MBE and rMBE indicate whether the model under/overestimate a given variable, and gives the absolute and relative magnitude and direction of the bias. EF is based on the comparison of the simulation model with a constant model (i.e. the average of measured data) and ranges between -∝ and one. Negative EF values indicate that the constant model performs better than or as well as the simulation model. A value of one indicate a perfect model. EF is a good indicator to compare model simulations with two different sets of parameters (e.g. before/ after calibration) against the same dataset. It is however of little value to compare two simulations with the same set of parameters against two different datasets, because it depends on the variance of the observed dataset. RMSE and rRMSE are the model absolute and relative prediction error. The combined analysis of these four indicators give a robust assessment of model accuracy. Similarly to  1 . 
 Stress factors calculated by STICS (see Section 2.1.2 and Table  S1 ) were averaged over periods ranging from -60 to + 60 days before/after the beginning of grain filling. For each period, the Pearson correlation coefficient (R 2 ) between observed grain yield (total fixed N 2 respectively) and stress factor affecting grain yield (N 2 fixation respectively) over the period was computed. The period corresponding to the maximum R 2 was determined. For this analysis, calibration and evaluation datasets were pooled. 
 
 Eight parameters values were obtained from literature (Table  4 ). Faba bean shows a long day response to photoperiod  4 ), based on the assumption that cardinal temperatures for developmental processes are close for a given species (e.g.  4 ). Four parameters values were obtained using direct in-field measurement (Table  4  and Fig.  2 ). Maximum and minimum number of grain per square meter (nbgrmax and nbgrmin), maximum grain weight (pgrainmaxi) and maximum harvest index (irmax) were set to the maximum or minimum measured values in the experiments in Auzeville and Auch with an added or subtracted 10% respectively to reach assumed potential values. The other 30 parameters values were set according to the result of the sequential optimisation with OptimiSTICS using measured variables (Table  4 ). 
 
 Calibration led to satisfactory prediction of the dates of emergence, end of juvenile phase, beginning of grain filling and physiological maturity. Relative bias was low (0-10%) with fair EF values (Fig.  3 ), indicating the relevance of calculating crop development based on vernalisation and photoperiodic and thermal time-course formalisms. Simulated LAI values for the calibration dataset were close to observed values with a low relative bias of 1% and a satisfactory EF of 0.69. Prediction error was however great due to a bias of a few days in the senescence dynamic that had large consequences on the daily agreement between observed and simulated LAI values (rRMSE = 56%) (Fig.  4a ). 
 Predicted biomass agreed with observation throughout the growth seasons in both calibration and validation datasets (EF > 0.77 and -7% < bias < 0%). Prediction error was high due to senescence defoliation between grain physiological maturity and harvest that was difficult to precisely simulate (rRMSE of 41 and 31% for calibration and evaluation respectively). There was a large variation in faba bean biomass at harvest (1.5-11.6 t ha -1 and 2.8-7.2 t ha -1 for calibration and evaluation datasets respectively) depending on site, year and management (Fig.  4c  and d ) and the model was able to reproduce this behaviour. The calibration of parameters related to N 2 fixation (Tables  3  and 4 )  EF remained high and bias remained low in the evaluation indicating that the model was able to reproduce the wide range of final N 2 fixed at harvest (62-166 kg N ha -1 , Fig.  4f ). N acquired (N content in crop aerial parts) was adequately simulated with low bias both in calibration and evaluation (-7 and 2% respectively) and EF values above 0.5 (Fig.  4g  and h ). 
 Observed grain yield greatly varied depending on site-year-management (0.42-4.7 t ha-1 , Fig.  5a ). The model performed well in simulating grain yield (EF = 0.66 with low relative bias) for calibration dataset. Model performance remained satisfactory during evaluation, with an EF value of 0.65 and a relative bias of -1% (Fig.  5b ). Simulated grain N content was slightly underestimated (relative bias of -10%) in the calibration dataset with a satisfactory EF value of 0.60 (Fig.  5c ). In the evaluation, grain N content was predicted with a low relative bias (3%). The EF was low (0.27) but the range of observed values for evaluation (65-162 kg N ha -1 ) was narrower than for calibration (21-200 kg N ha -1 ). 
 Soil water content over the entire profile was correctly simulated by the model, both during calibration and evaluation (EF > 0.70 with small relative bias) (Fig.  5e  and f ). Soil N content was less adequately predicted, with small (0.22) and negative (-1.42) EF values, in calibration and evaluation respectively (Fig.  5g  and h ). Bias was low in the evaluation (-10%), indicating that though the model was not able to reproduce precisely the differences between site, year and management, it predicted soil mineral N content within the range of the rather low observed values. 
 With regard to grain yield, the water stress factor (i.e. water supply/ demand ratio, see section 2.1.2 and Table  S1 ) had the strongest explanatory power. Indeed, when averaged over a period of 6 days before the beginning of grain filling (i.e. the end of grain onset), it explained 78% of the observed grain yield variability in the overall dataset (Fig.  6a ). The model fairly reproduced the temporal dynamic of above ground biomass (Fig.  7d-f ). Water stress during the end of grain onset (Fig.  7a-c ) affected the growth rate of above ground biomass (Fig.  7d-f ), which in turn influenced the final number of grains (Fig.  7g-i ). In the end, the model was able to simulate contrasting water stresses that occurred in different soil types (valley/hillside) for a range of climatic conditions and their final impact on the number of grain and grain yield (Fig.  7 ). Heat stress effect on radiation use efficiency, conversely, had a limited explanatory power in our conditions. Indeed, when averaged over a period of 26 days after the beginning of grain filling (the period with the best correlation), heat stress explained only 25% of the observed grain yield variability. The model simulated no heat stress on grain filling in the majority of the site-year-management units. There were only five days in 2002 in Auch during which crop temperature exceeded the maximal temperature above which grain filling stops. With regard to N 2 fixation, the water deficit factor had also the strongest explanatory power. Thus, when averaged over a period of 20 days after the beginning of grain filling, it explained 82% of the observed variability in total fixed N 2 at harvest (Fig.  6b ). Despite a limited number of within-season measurements in some situations (Fig.  8d ), the model reproduced reasonably well the temporal dynamic of N 2 fixation (Fig.  8c  and d ). In the end, the model was able to reproduce the wide range of total fixed N 2 at harvest (62-172 kg ha -1 , see Fig.  6 ). The model diagnosed no stress due to anoxia in any of the cropping situations of this study. Though the model diagnosed limited heat and nitrogen stresses in some situations (value of 0.67 and 0.58 respectively) the correlation with the amount of N 2 fixed was not significant for any of the periods considered. 
 
 While the process of calibrating a new cultivar is well described, e.g.  Estimating a parameter from direct measurements and literature has the advantage of not being based on the assumption that model formalism and all other parameters are reliable, as it is the case with mathematical optimisation  4 ). However, this procedure is not always possible for many reasons. Firstly, field measurements of parameters is expensive and time consuming  3 ) correspond to potential conditions with no stress, and the presence or absence of stress is not necessarily mentioned in the literature. Finally, there is a risk of error accumulation when extensively relying on approximate or conflicting literature values  
 Agronomic diagnosis is crucial for the identification of constraints affecting crop growth and to help the identification of sound agronomic management. The diagnosis needs to be robust, i.e. reliable under different sets of experimental conditions  Our study adds to the body of literature showing that in a temperate climate with rain fed conditions and appropriate control of pest pressure, drought is the prevailing stress and the main driver of yield variability  6 . Correlation (a) between grain yield and average water supply/demand ratio during grain onset (over the six days before beginning of grain filling) and (b) total N 2 fixed at harvest and average water deficit factor for N 2 fixation during grain filling (over the first 20 days after beginning of grain filling). Calibration and evaluation datasets were pooled together. Fig.  7 . Example of contrasted simulated temporal dynamic (black line) of water supply/demand ratio, above ground biomass and number of grain per square meter in Auch in 2007 (a,d,g), Auzeville in 2010 (b,e,h) and Auzeville in 2007 (c,f,i) in the calibration dataset. White squares are the observations. Vertical dotted lines delimit the periods during which the correlation between average water supply/demand ratio and grain yield is maximal. during grain onset reduces grain legume biomass accumulation (decrease of photosynthesis and reduction of leaf area) and assimilate availability that in turn reduce final seed number  S1 ). Thus, the magnitude of water stress during grain set and its impact on plant growth rate determines the extent to which the plant can reach the maximum grain number (nbgrmax, see Table  4  and Fig.  2 ). Secondly, in the model, water deficit reduces the potential N 2 fixation, i.e. nodulation and nitrogen fixation are partially or totally inhibited according to nitrate concentration in the topsoil and when soil moisture in the topsoil drops below permanent wilting point (see Section 2.1.2 and Table  S1 ). This careful check of the behaviour of different model functional modules (Figs.  7  and 8 ) strongly suggests that the STICS model accurately captured the underlying processes driving grain yield formation, N 2 fixation and water stress. We can therefore be confident in the diagnosis drawn from our site-year-management units with regard to water stress. Thus, the generic STICS processes describing yield formation and water stress, when calibrated for faba bean with the proper options activated, have proven useful in explaining variability in yield for this particular legume crop, without the need to build new processes into the generic model. The good fit obtained with the evaluation dataset indicates that the current set of parameters could be reliably used in other situations different from the ones in the calibration. This however needs to be confirmed with other studies, e.g. for situations where soil mineral N levels would be higher than in our study (on average 47 kg ha -1 at sowing over the whole profile), which could affect N 2 fixation. We verified by virtual experiment -corresponding to a local sensitivity analysis -that STICS was able to simulate a strong reduction in N 2 fixation when soil nitrate content was higher in the upper layers. Eventually, by considering both a water deficit factor for N 2 fixation and a water supply/demand ratio (acting on crop biomass), the model allowed unravelling interesting situations where similar faba bean biomass masked differences in the amounts of fixed N 2 . For example, crop biomass and water/supply demand ratio were similarly low in Auzeville in 2011 (3 t ha -1 ) and 2015 (4.1 t ha -1 ) due to similar water stress on biomass (water supply-demand ratio = 0.3). However, the amount of N 2 fixed was doubled (88 kg ha -1 ) in 2015 compared with 2011 (46 kg ha -1 ). The model indicated a stronger water deficit for N 2 fixation in 2011 (water deficit factor = 0.12) compared with 2015 (water deficit factor = 0.32). This understanding of nonlinearities is crucial for the assessment of innovative cropping system. Pests and diseases can also reduce faba bean grain yield. Coupling STICS with an epidemiological model  
 Though the effects of climate change on cereals in Europe have deserved a great attention (e.g.  Dynamic models have often been criticised for putting too much emphasis on single crop assessment on a year-to-year basis  STICS can also simulate intercropping  
 Based on literature and cropping experiments in two contrasting sites of southwestern France, we successfully adapted the STICS soilcrop model to faba bean.We developed and validated a method smartly combining the mobilization of literature references, direct field measurements and a transparent and sequential optimisation procedure to derive crop parameters. The obtained set of parameters allowed a satisfactory prediction of plant growth, N 2 fixation, mineral N uptake, grain yield and grain N content. Careful assessment of dynamic variables (plant growth, grain number, N 2 fixation) and the associated stress factors allowed to carry-out a credible and robust diagnosis of grain yield and N 2 fixation variability in the sites of this study. The proposed set of parameter could then be used for studies on (i) yield gap in organic fields affected by biotic and abiotic stresses, (ii) the effect of climate change and more frequent droughts on faba bean, and (iii) the effect of faba bean insertion in crop rotations (as sole crop or intercrop) on N provision to the subsequent crop. Calibration of other grain legumes like chickpea and lentils using the proposed methodology will broaden the capacity of the STICS model to simulate innovative cropping systems including grain legumes.
A transition to more agro-ecological cropping systems is urgently needed to ensure sustainable food production systems and consequently sustainable food security, based, for example, on biological pest control, reduced tillage, intercropping, cover crops, or agroforestry  These ground covers (GC) are used to provide several agricultural and environmental benefits. They limit weeds and consequently herbicide applications, and they improve soil fertility and bearing capacity  Life cycle assessment (LCA), an ISO-standardized methodology to evaluate the environmental performance of product systems, is widely applied to agri-food systems  To extend the modeling of GCM to other types of GC and crops in pesticide emission modeling, the definitions of the cover crop occupation and its canopy development were first proposed. The present study considers GCM composed of spontaneous or planted cover crops without being a cash crop. The fraction intercepted by the cover leaves was estimated and processes occurring on those leaves were simulated (volatilization, degradation, and uptake), considering as far as possible the cover family (e.g., Fabaceae). Furthermore, pesticide plant uptake, modeled by the crop exposure model dynamiCROP  The main objective of the present study is to introduce GCM in pesticide emission modeling. To achieve this goal, three specific objectives were defined: (i) to propose an approach to considering GCM in a state-of-the-art pesticide emission model, (ii) to analyze the effect of GCM on distributions of emissions and related freshwater ecotoxicity impacts, and (iii) to test our approach in a case study using different GCM types under temperate and tropical climate conditions. 
 
 The GCM was introduced in PestLCI Consensus, a mass balance model that calculates fractions of pesticide mass reaching different plant-environment compartments (in-field crop leaves, in-field soil, in-and off-field air, off-field surfaces, and in-field groundwater) with two distributions  In the following, we present the methodological framework for integrating GCM into the PestLCI Consensus emission model, which is then applied in an illustrated case study. To integrate GCM in PestLCI Consensus, a new compartment in the model for the cover crop was introduced, in addition to the four existing initial distribution compartments (i.e., air, off-field surfaces, field soil, and field crop). All five compartments are used in the modeling analysis of the present study. Data required to define the cover crop are (i) cover crop occupation fraction between the rows and the stems of the main crop, below the crop canopy (i.e., area fraction of crop-free field soil that is occupied by cover crop), f soil cover → ; (ii) cover crop canopy fraction (i.e., area fraction of cover crop that is covered by leaves), f intercept,cover  For this purpose, the PestLCI model web tool, in a beta version, was used, into which we implemented the equations for GCM. The following sections describe a full approach to consider GCM in PestLCI, based on adapting several processes and the mass balance in the model. 
 Using the initial PestLCI mass balance  f f f 1 field air dep = + + (1) Figure  1  presents the pesticide distribution to the various compartments. After re-arranging Equation (1), the fraction reaching the field surface area (f field ) was obtained: f f f f f 1 field air dep field crop field rest = -( + ) = + → → (2) The fraction reaching the field surface area (f field ) is partially deposited on crop leaves (f field crop 
 ) according to crop intercepted fraction f intercept,crop and calculated as: f f f field crop field intercept,crop = × → (3) Then, the fraction left on the field after crop interception (f field rest ) → is calculated as: f f f f f 1 field rest field intercept,crop field cover field soil = ×( - ) = + → → → (4) The newly introduced fractions of pesticides reaching the cover leaves (f field cover ) → and the field soil f field soil ( ) → are then calculated according to the effective area fraction of cropfree field that is covered by cover crop (f eff,cover ): f f f field cover field rest eff,cover = × → → (5) f f f 1 field soil field rest eff,cover = ×( - ) → → (6) where f eff,cover is calculated by multiplying the area fraction of crop-free field that is cover crop (f soil cover 
 ) and the area fraction of cover crop that is covered by leaves (f intercept,cover ): f f f eff,cover soil cover intercept,cover = × → (7) 
 Again building on the initial PestLCI mass balance  The degradation on cover crop leaves was integrated in the total degraded fraction of pesticide. To consider the cover family (e.g., Pooideae), the degradation rate constant for pesticides on cover leaves (k degCover ) in (d -1 ) was calculated. Based on a database of measured dissipation halflives  DT50 10 T T T cover, log DT50 0.01995 T 10 cover, ref ref ( ) = ( ) - × - (8) where DT50 T cover, ref is the pesticide half-life on cover leaf at reference temperature (20 °C) (d), T the average temper- ature in the month of application (°C), and T ref the temper- ature at which the dissipation half-life is reported (20 °C). DT50 T cover, ref is selected from a list of coefficients for crops that correspond to one of the relevant cover families (e.g., Pooideae). Then, analogous to the pesticide translocation and removal processes implemented for the field crops, the degradation rate constant for pesticides on cover leaves at average temperature in the month of application (d -1 ) was calculated as: k ln 2 DT50 T degCover cover, = ( ) (9) Finally, the overall rate constant for the cover leaves k OCover (d -1 ) was calculated as: k k k k OCover volat uptake degCover = + + (10) where the rate constant for volatilization from the leaf surface, k volat (d -1 ), and the rate constant for leaf uptake, k uptake (d -1 ), are both modeled independently of the crop or cover family, and where the degradation rate constant for pesticides on cover leaves, k degCover (d -1 ) is modeled according to Equation (  9 ). The processes of degradation, volatilization, and uptake on cover leaves are calculated until the time defined for the secondary emissions to occur after pesticide application (default: t 1 assess = d). Considering the crop family of the cover, the degradation on cover leaves (f degCover ) is different from that on the main crop, and was calculated as: f f k k e 1 k t degCover field cover degCover OCover OCover assess = × ×( - ) (- × ) → (11) where f field cover → is the fraction reaching cover leaves after pesticide application, Equation (  5 ); k degCover is the degra- dation rate constant for pesticides on leaf at average temperature in the month of application (d -1 ), Equation (  9 ); and k OCover is the overall rate constant dissipation on cover leaves (d -1 ), Equation (  10 ). The volatilization on cover leaves (f volCover ) was calcu- lated as: f f k k e 1 k t volCover field cover volat OCover OCover assess = × ×( - ) (- × ) → (12) where f field cover → is the fraction reaching cover leaves after pesticide application, Equation (5); k volat is the rate constant for volatilization from the leaf surface (d -1 ); and k OCover is the overall rate constant dissipation on cover (d -1 ), Equation (  10 ). The cover leaves uptake (f uptakeCover ) was calculated as: f f k k e 1 k t uptakeCover field cover uptake OCover OCover assess = × ×( - ) (- × ) → (13) where f field cover → is the fraction reaching cover leaves after pesticide application, Equation (  5 ); k uptake is the rate con- stant for leaf uptake (d -1 ) independent of the crop or cover family; and k OCover is the overall rate constant dissipation on cover leaves, Equation (  10 ). The fraction remaining on cover leaves (f Leaves cover -) that was not degraded, taken up, or volatilized at t 1 d assess = , was calculated as: f f e k t Leaves cover field cover OCover assess = × - (- × ) → (14) where f field cover → is the fraction reaching cover leaves after pesticide application, Equation (5); and k OCover is the overall rate constant for removal from cover leaves (d -1 ), Equation (  10 ). The total fraction in and on cover leaves (f cover sec ) -was calculated by summing the fraction uptake from cover leaves (f uptakeCover ) and the fraction remaining on cover leaves (f Leaves cover ) -as: f f f cover sec uptakeCover Leaves cover = + - - (15) Other processes not affected by the presence of a cover crop (e.g., processes related to crop leaves) are detailed elsewhere  
 To evaluate how the introduction of GCM influences final LCA results, impact scores (IS) for freshwater ecotoxicity impacts of pesticide emissions were calculated with USEtox  m C F IS p c p c p c , emi, , , = ( × ) ∑ ( 16 ) where m p c emi, , (kg emitted /kg applied ) is the total emitted mass of pesticide p from the crop production into a given envi- ronmental compartment c, and CF p c , (PAF m 3 d/kg emitted ) is the corresponding characterization factor for freshwater ecotoxicity. Related impact characterization factors for freshwater ecotoxicity of the two considered pesticides (mancozeb and pyriproxyfen) are presented in Supporting Information, Table  S2 . As recommended in  
 To evaluate the proposed GC modeling approach, pesticide applications were simulated for grapevine (Vitis vinifera) in the Loire Valley in France (Figure  2A ); following the initial work done on GCM in grapevine production in the Loire Valley by  2B ), for which a previous PestLCI model version was tested  1 ). A default situation was defined for field characteristics and farming practices to allow feasible comparisons between crop production systems (i.e., field length and width of 100 m, no slope, no drift reduction system on the application method, no drainage system, no irrigation, and no tillage). Initial emissions to air (f air ) and to off-field surfaces (f dep ) were defined according to pesticide drift caused by the selected application method, that is, with a knapsack sprayer on tomato  To assess the variability of pesticide distribution on cover crop, different growth stages of the main crop (f intercept,crop ) were considered, as well as the effective area fraction of crop-free field that is cover cropped (f eff,cover ). For each scenario, two main crop growth stages were considered, namely the leaf development and the flowering stage/development of fruit/ripening. They were defined as f 0.3 intercept,crop = for leaf development and f 0.8 intercept,crop = for flowering  . Each of the cover crops was composed of either grass from Pooideae or clover from the Fabaceae family for the grapevine production, and grass from Panicoideae or Stylosanthes guianensis from the Fabaceae family for the tomato production. Covers from Pooideae family are present mainly in temperate and dry climates, whereas covers from Panicoideae family dominate tropical and subtropical areas  S1 . Pesticide emissions were assigned in the impact assessment model USEtox. The off-field deposition fraction was shared according to prevailing surface compartments in the region of each scenario using the CORINE Land Cover data (data.gouv.fr). In Martinique, the off-field deposition fraction was allocated as follows: 29% to agricultural soil, 70% to natural soil, and 1% to freshwater, and in the Loire Valley, 67% to agricultural soil, 31.2% to natural soil, and 1.8% to freshwater. Based on the calculation approach to emission distribution under GCM conditions, and the related calculation of ecotoxicity impacts in the case study, the effect of GCM on emission and related freshwater ecotoxicity impact results was analyzed. 
 To assess cover crop effects on initial and secondary distributions, control scenarios without cover (i.e., with bare soil) for each combination of pesticide, crop, and intercepted fractions (i.e., eight control scenarios with f eff,cover = 0) were designed and simulated. Distribution fractions are presented as a function of continuously increasing cover crop area fractions. After an analysis of the influence of the effective area fraction of cover crop f eff,cover ( )on initial dis- tribution fractions, a second analysis was carried out on the secondary emission fractions and particularly on processes involved on cover leaves, namely degradation, volatilization, and uptake. At the impact level, scenarios with and without a cover crop were compared by calculating the percentage of change of IS for freshwater ecotoxicity (PAF m 3 d/kg applied ), for each considered environmental emission compartment. The percentage of change (% change -) was calculated as: % change IS without cover IS with cover IS without cover 100 - = - × ⎡ ⎣ ⎤ ⎦ (17) When pesticide emissions to cover leaves are assigned to the agricultural soil compartment as field soil surface emissions, this corresponds for initial distribution fractions to a scenario without considering any cover. Therefore, the initial emission fraction reaching cover leaves, f field cover → , was not linked to the impact assessment but considered as a removal process as for the pesticide emission on crop leaves. For secondary emissions, two agronomic situations were considered for the fraction taken up by the cover and left on cover leaves (f cover sec ) -. One situation considered that the cover crop was exported from the actual field crop, that is, mowed and transferred outside the field. Hence, f cover sec was not linked to the impact assessment. The second situation considered the cover buried in the field soil by, for example, a tillage practice, so f cover sec -was assumed to reach agricultural soil as emission. In summary, three situations were analyzed: (i) initial distribution with cover exported from the field, (ii) secondary emissions with cover exported from the field, and (iii) secondary emissions with cover buried in the field soil. 
 
 Across a range of effective area fractions of cover (f eff,cover ) for the tomato and grapevine scenarios, the variability of initial and secondary distribution fractions is presented in Figure  3 . Emission fractions for the two cover crops (f 0.35 eff,cover = and f 0.7 eff,cover = ) are detailed in Table  2 . At initial distribution, the air-assisted sprayer in grapevine displays higher off-field surfaces emissions, f 0.04 dep = and higher emission to air, f 0.08 air = , than the knapsack sprayer used in tomato production with f 0.02 dep = and f 0.06 air = . The differences of emission fractions to air and off-field surfaces are linked to the characteristics of the application method as discussed in  The initial pesticide distributions to soil and cover crop depend on the main crop intercepted fraction and the effective area fraction of cover. The higher the fraction intercepted by the crop (reproductive-flowering phase), the lower the fraction distributed under the crop canopy (i.e., to the field soil and cover crop). Indeed, in our case study, when the main crop is starting to grow, the fraction of pesticide distributed between the soil and the cover crop was 3.5 times higher than when the main crop is at the flowering stage (Table  2 ). On average, the presence of a cover crop reduced the fraction reaching field soil by a factor of 3 compared with a bare soil regardless of the field crop, its growth stage, and the effective area fraction of cover. The variation in the fraction reaching field soil among scenarios was caused mainly by different effective area fractions of cover, driven by the area fraction of crop-free field that is cover crop and the area fraction of cover crop that is covered by leaves corresponding to the cover leaves density. The higher the effective area fraction of cover, the lower the fraction distributed to field soil. The effect of cover crop on pesticide initial distribution fractions to field soil and cover crop was propagated to the secondary emission fractions (Figure  3 ). When including secondary emission distribution processes, cover crop leaf uptake contributed more than 99% to cover-crop-related processes, yielding an average leaf uptake fraction of 0.22 across all scenarios. The total degraded fractions (on soil, on-field crop, and cover leaves) in our case study were highest when there was no cover crop. This is explained by the fact that, despite faster degradation in crops and cover crops compared with soil, the even faster plant uptake into both crop and cover crop drives the overall pesticide distribution within 24 h that are considered in the emission model. Consequently, most of the pesticide is taken up into crop, while degradation processes will drive subsequent fate processes that are modeled as part of the impact assessment. The degraded fractions on cover leaves displayed only slight differences between the cover crop families, that is, Pooideae vs. Fabaceae for grapevine scenarios and Panicoideae vs. Fabaceae for tomato scenarios. Indeed, degradation on Fabaceae leaves was lower than on Pooideae and Panicoideae, owing to longer dissipation half-lives on Fabaceae (see detail of DT50 in Table  S3 ). On leaves, the only process considering crop and cover family is degradation. The fraction degraded on cover leaves was, on average, less than 0.1% but could reach a maximum of 0.65% for the mancozeb application with full coverage of Fabaceae (i.e., f eff,cover = 1). The fraction taken up by the cover that depends on the initial distribution fraction on cover leaves rose to approximately 18% when the crop , respectively, corresponding to the installation (a, c) and flowering stage (b, d), for grapevine (a, b) and tomato (c, d) for a range of effective area fractions of crop-free field that is covered by cover crop (f eff,cover ). Vertical lines represent the cover crop setup of the case study with f 0.35 eff,cover = and f 0.7 eff,cover = growth stage was on maturation (f 0.8 intercept,crop = ), and rose to approximately 60% when the crop growth stage was on installation (f 0.3 intercept,crop = ) for both scenarios. The presence of a cover crop did not modify initial distribution fractions to air, crop, and off-field surfaces. It did not modify either secondary emission fractions to off-field surfaces, crop uptake, and fraction left on crop leaves. For secondary distribution scenarios, processes that are by default initiated after the first day after application were not included in our study but require further analysis to ensure consistency with our proposed GCM processes and to evaluate emissions eventually reaching groundwater or surface water. With that, the fractions emitted to off-field surfaces did not vary with the presence or absence of a cover crop in our case study. Overall, during initial and secondary distributions, the introduction of a cover crop with its own leaf surface area reduced the fraction reaching the field soil. 
 The IS for the scenarios with a cover crop and the percentage of change compared with the scenarios without a cover (i.e., bare soil) are presented in Table  3 . The contribution of the USEtox environmental compartments to the total IS calculated for the scenarios with and without cover crop for tomato and grapevine are presented in Figure  4  according to the distribution used (initial or secondary). Pesticide initial distribution fractions were assigned to the environmental compartments of the impact assessment model (i.e., USEtox), except the emission fractions to crop and cover leaves, because the plant compartment does not exist in the model. Only the impacts caused by agricultural soil emissions were affected by the consideration of a cover crop, with a reduction of approximately 100% regardless of crop type. As a consequence, the IS using initial distribution fractions were reduced by 65% for grapevine and by 90% for the tomato crop with the use of a cover crop. Two connections were assessed between secondary emission fraction to cover and USEtox compartments. First, as for the connection with the initial distribution, no link to any USEtox compartment was assumed for the emission fraction to cover, considering cover exported from the field. Second, the fraction taken up by and present on cover leaves was assigned to agricultural soil, considering the cover buried in the field soil. Using either initial or secondary distribution fractions, IS caused by emissions to the natural soil were not affected by cover crops; they are related to emissions from off-field surfaces. In our two scenarios, the variation in IS to air with or without a cover was very small (% change 10 % 5 -= ) 
 . A variation of one order of magnitude was observed on the IS caused by emissions to air across scenarios caused by the vapor pressure of the two pesticides tested (see details of pesticide characteristics in Table  S1 ). IS for emissions to continental freshwater (including emissions to ground and surface water) were not affected by the presence of a cover crop. In all scenarios, impact results based on secondary emission fractions were caused mainly by emissions to the continental agricultural soil compartment (Figure  4 ). In all scenarios with and without cover crop, the total IS were higher on grapevine than on tomato. This is mainly the result of the higher emission fractions to off-field surfaces for grapevine, with higher off-field surfaces water area fraction in the Loire Valley (1.8%) than in Martinique (1%), and with higher characterization factors (CF) on emissions directly into the freshwater compartment than into other compartments (detail of CFs in Table  S2 ). Overall, across the two scenarios, the modeling of GCM demonstrated the potential to reduce emissions to field soil and related freshwater ecotoxicity impacts. This is because ecotoxicity impacts are driven mainly by pesticide fractions directly reaching surface water via deposition on off-field areas as well as via fractions depositing on field soil and subsequently reaching water bodies. Moreover, when considering the cover exported from the field, and consequently not assigned to any environmental compartment in the impact assessment, total IS were reduced by approximately 65% (grapevine) and 90% (tomato) compared with bare soil scenarios for initial and secondary emissions. Conversely, when considering the cover buried in the field soil, total IS were similar to bare soil, reduced by only 1% (grapevine) and 3% (tomato). 
 
 The modeling of GCM in pesticide emission analysis was considered, by defining an effective area of cover and cover family, for initial and secondary pesticide distributions as derived with the PestLCI Consensus model. Within 1 day of assessment time after pesticide application, processes on cover leaves, that is, degradation, uptake, and volatilization, were modeled. The modeling of GCM fills a gap in the consideration of common farming practices, and demonstrated the potential of GCM to reduce emissions to field soil and related freshwater ecotoxicity impacts. Following our proposed approach to considering GCM processes, our emission results reproduce well the effect of GC on pesticide distribution as observed in cocoa farm systems by  Estimating pesticide interception by the crop or the cover crop is important to estimate pesticide losses to the environment  3 ). The effective area fraction of cover should preferably be defined by observation. However, LCA practitioners rarely know the GCM and its characteristics. If the studied field cannot be visited, for crops grown in rows (e.g., orchards, grapevine) an effective area fraction of cover crop of f 0.35 eff,cover = can be assumed for a planted cover at its maximum development and an effective area fraction of f 0.7 eff,cover = for a spontaneous cover crop. Furthermore, a set of common living cover crops should be developed according to the main crop characteristics (e.g., on banana production at leaf development stage), defining the cover effective area fraction and the cover family. After pesticide application, processes of degradation, uptake, and volatilization occur on the crop and cover leaves. To estimate the dissipation half-lives on leaves, which are crop dependent  In our two scenarios, the assignment of the emissions on the cover crop (uptake and left on leaves) to agricultural soil (considering the cover crop buried in the field) was compared with no assignment to any compartment (considering the cover exported from the field). The importance of the differences obtained with these two calculations (IS reduced by 65% for grapevine and by 90% for tomato when cover was not assigned to any environmental compartments as emission compared with assigned to field soil) needs to be relativized compared with the high uncertainty of the pesticide characterization factors for which uncertainties of 1-3 orders of magnitude apply  In the absence of complete sets of measured emission fractions to the environment, our proposed approach can only be qualitatively discussed, notably exploring other model design. Most pesticide transfer models at field scale (e.g., GLEAMS, MACRO, PEARL, PRZM) do not consider cover crop, and rather consider GC as plant residues (e.g., GLEAMS, PRZM;  To generalize our conclusions on GCM pesticide emissions and related impacts, a sensitivity analysis should be performed, notably testing the GCM modeling with a wide range of pesticides with diverse characteristics (e.g., DT50) and including additional environmental processes, climate conditions, and field crops as well as cover crop types. Furthermore, a wider range of crop types and related application methods should be tested in line with agronomically relevant practices. Overall, our proposal for modeling GCM raises awareness of the fraction of pesticides reaching living cover inside the field crop, which can affect the distribution of pesticides to the environment with its possible ecotoxicity impacts through agricultural soil emissions. 
 Additional research efforts are required on the modeling of processes occurring a few days after pesticide application (secondary distribution), with minimum redundancy with the impact assessment fate model. Modeling secondary distribution processes requires the accounting of local field, farming practices, soil and climate conditions, which are of particular interest to assess farming system diversity. Further research is required to consistently include additional processes, such as runoff, as well as to account for the influence of GCM on pesticide residues in edible field crops and on remaining pesticide fractions in unharvested cover crops. More specifically, GC may affect water processes, such as runoff, leaching, or preferential flow  As recommended in  As for the modeling of pesticide degradation on crop and cover leaves, volatilization and plant uptake should be refined to be modeled as a function of crop family, considering in particular leaf characteristics, which differ across crop types  Further improvement of GCM should be considered for modeling dead GC. Indeed, mulch or crop residues left on fields (e.g., stripping of banana while growing) are used largely in tropical conditions to keep moisture or reduce soil erosion  Overall, the modeling of GC opened the path to the modeling of pesticide emissions in intercropping systems. This is particularly important because these systems are widely conducted in market gardening in tropical conditions to ensure income stability  
 The inclusion of GCM in pesticide emission modeling was proposed, defining an effective area of cover and the cover family through initial and secondary pesticide distributions. Across the two scenarios on tomato production in Martinique and on grapevine cultivation in the Loire Valley, the modeling of GCM allowed highlighting the potential of soil cover to reduce pesticide emissions and related freshwater ecotoxicity impacts. Including a new fraction on and in cover crop leaves, the emissions to field soil decreased by a factor of 3. During the secondary distribution, over the three processes occurring on the cover leaves, the fraction taken up by the cover leaves was predominant with more than 99% contribution to these processes. At both initial and secondary distribution levels, considering the cover exported from the field and consequently not assigned to any environmental emission compartment, total IS were reduced by approximately 65% and 90% compared with bare soil, for grapevine and tomato, respectively. Additional processes, such as runoff, should be considered in future efforts, along with accounting for the influence of GCM on pesticide residues in edible field crops and on remaining pesticide fractions in unharvested cover crops. Indeed, if crop residues and unharvested cover crop remain on the field, there could be further emissions to soil and air. The inclusion of dead cover would be an important step toward achieving the modeling of various types of GCM. From the initial work of  Integr Environ Assess Manag 2021:1-15 © 2021 The Authors wileyonlinelibrary.com/journal/ieam 
			 Integr Environ Assess Manag 00, 2021-GENTIL-SERGENT ET AL.
Sugarcane (Saccharum officinarum) is a widely spread crop with more than twenty-five million hectares (FAO, 2012) allocated around the world for the production of sugar and its derivatives  Dynamic crop models provide an ecophysiological framework to estimate biomass production. These models compute the evolution of crop variables (e.g., leaf area index, biomass and yield) as a function of variables (climatic data) and parameters (e.g., soil properties and cropping practices). For sugarcane, specific models have been developed, aiming at predicting sucrose as well as biomass yield  Remote sensing data provide representative and spatially exhaustive information on the development of the plot  Remote sensing is also used to estimate the biophysical variables of the canopy, such as the leaf area index LAI  • The forcing approach involves replacing a simulated state variable value by its remotely sensed derived value. The forcing can be partial (replacements are used whenever an observation is available) or complete (replacements are used every time step of the simulation). As many dynamic crop models work at daily time steps, a complete forcing requires a value for every day of simulation. Because satellite images are rarely available at such time resolutions, the temporal profile of the state variable must be completed. Various methods are available  Considering the high spatial heterogeneity of sugarcane fields on Reunion Island, the objective of this study was to assess the performance of assimilating biophysical variables estimated from Satellite Pour l'Observation de la Terre SPOT satellite data into a MOSICAS sugarcane-dedicated model. To do so, we established a linear relationship between the ground measurements of the fIPAR and SPOT NDVI values and used this relationship to convert a SPOT NDVI time series acquired at field scale in two climatically contrasted farms and over 3 growth cycles  
 
 The study was conducted from July 2009 to November 2012 on Reunion Island, Indian Ocean (21 • 07 S; 55 • 31 E). This 2500 km 2 island is characterised by a tropical climate with two seasons. The cool, dry season runs from May to October, while the warm season runs from November to April. This island presents a climatic gradient that is windward on the north-eastern part and leeward on the south-western part. The island is also characterised by a significant altitude gradient (Fig.  1 ). In 2011, 3400 farms cultivated 24,300 ha sugarcane along the coast under a wide range of climatic and agronomic conditions. The mean area of the fields is approximately 0.9 ha. Sugarcane fields are harvested from July to December, and the mean yield is approximately 76 t ha -1 . A total of 60 fields were monitored during the time of the experiment (between 2010 and 2012). These fields are located in 2 study sites situated in contrasting climatic zones (Table  1 ). The first site (FN) was located in the Northern part of the island, where the mean annual rainfall was 1670 mm. The 38 studied fields were located between 60 m and 200 m of altitude and were cultivated under rainfed conditions. The main cultivar was the R579, which is particularly adapted for the rainy conditions of this area. The mean yield of the studied fields was 118 t ha -1 . The second site (FS) was located in the Southern part of the island between 170 m and 480 m of altitude. The 22 fields studied had a wider range of cultivars and cropping practices than did those in FN (Table  1 ). The mean annual rainfall of the fields located at greater than 300 m of altitude was 1030 mm, and the mean annual rainfall of fields located at less than 300 m of altitude was 750 mm. To avoid water stresses, the latter fields were irrigated. The mean yield of the studied fields was 86 t ha -1 and 98 t ha -1 under rainfed and irrigated conditions, respectively. 
 
 To establish a relationship between fIPAR and NDVI, 42 measurements of photosynthetically active radiation were made using a LP-80 AccuPAR ceptometer and external sensor (Decagon devices Inc., Pullman, Washington, United States) from December 2011 to June 2012 throughout the growth cycle of five sugarcane fields located in FS. 9 sampling plots were placed on each field in order to overcome their spatial heterogeneity. 4 above-and below-canopy measurements were made on each sampling plot between 10:00 a.m. and 01:00 p.m. on clear days. For each measurement, the fIPAR was calculated as follows: fIPAR = PAR -PAR b PAR (1) where PAR is the incoming photosynthetically active radiation (mol m -2 s -1 ) measured above the canopy, and PAR b is the transmitted photosynthetically active radiation measured below the canopy. The averaged fIPAR values were then computed for the field. As vegetation became senescent, the dry leaves were removed from the stalks to ensure a green leaf interception measurement. 
 Climatic and agronomic data (cropping practices and yields) of 60 fields (Table  1 ) were collected for three growth cycles  The rainfall and global radiation and mean temperature were collected at daily time steps by 2 weather stations and 5 pluviometers situated close to the sampled fields (Fig.  1 ). For each field, the daily values of rainfall were weighted according to the distance between the centroid of the field and the closest pluviometers. The potential evapotranspiration, global radiation and mean temperature were computed using gradients  Data on the cropping practices for each studied field, including harvest dates, cultivars and number of ratoons, were obtained from the farmers. The observed yield was computed from the harvested biomass from each individual field for the 3 study years  
 56 SPOT 60 × 60 km 2 images were acquired for a period ranging from July 2009 to December 2012 (Fig.  2 ). 14 Images were acquired using SPOT5 satellite, and 42 were acquired using SPOT4. Those images were provided by the Centre National d'Études Spatiales CNES through the KALIDEOS program  The 4 spectral bands on SPOT4 and SPOT5 are green (0.50-0.59 m), red (0.61-0.68 m), near infrared (0.78-0.89 m), and shortwave infrared (1.58-1.75 m). We calculated the normalized difference vegetation index NDVI  NDVI = B n -B r B n + B r (2) The NDVI values were computed for each available satellite image, and a median value of NDVI was calculated for each studied field. 
 
 As satellite data are rarely acquired on the same date as the ground measurements, we used an interpolation model to describe the dynamic evolution of the NDVI. The NDVI interpolation was performed using 2 continuous logistic functions  NDVI = F 1 (t) -F 2 (t) (3) F 1 (t) = M 1 + e (-a(t-t i )) (4) F 2 (t) = M 1 + e (-b(t-t f )) (5 ) where t is the degree day of the crop since the last harvest, M is the maximum value of the logistic curve, a and b are the slopes at the inflexion points of the F 1 and F 2 functions, respectively, and t i and t f are the degree day values at those inflexions points, respectively. These parameters were obtained using a non-linear regression (R Development Core Team, 2010) with minimisation of the relative root mean squared error. The degree day scale corresponds to the sum of the daily mean temperatures since the beginning of the sugarcane growth (corresponding to the previous harvest date) and considering a base temperature of 12 • C. Using this model, a set of daily NDVI values was computed for each studied field. 
 To force the model with fIPAR values derived from satellite data, it was necessary to formalise the NDVI-fIPAR relationship. As recommended by  
 MOSICAS is a sugarcane-dedicated dynamic crop model based on both a water balance module and a growth module  The water balance module is adapted from the CERES Maize model  3 ). The growth module computes a daily increase in the total dry biomass of the crop according to cultivar parameters as well as to temperature and global radiation and in the water satisfaction index computed by the water balance module as input variables. The thermal age of the crop is computed with a base temperature of 12 • C. The leaf area index of the crop is a function of the thermal age of the crop and the water satisfaction index. The leaf area index value is used to calculate the interception efficiency of the crop (ε i ), which describes the amount of global radiation intercepted by the crop. The total dry biomass DM (g m -2 ) produced is calculated as follows: DM = PAR × ε i × RUE m × K t × W s , ( 4 ) where PAR is the incoming photosynthetically active radiation (MJ m -2 ), RUE m is the conversion efficiency index (g MJ -1 ), K t is a stress factor depending on the temperature, and W S is a stress factor depending on the water satisfaction index. The biomass is then partitioned into stalks, leaves and roots. Finally, the yield is computed from the biomass allocated for the stalks. MOSICAS describes many physiological processes of crop growth. Its conception allows for the consideration of water stress due to its water balance module. However, the effect of other stresses, such as pests, diseases or nutrient deficiency, cannot be assessed by the model, which limits the precision of the simulated yields. In addition, MOSICAS has only one parameter set for the R570 sugarcane cultivar, but there are many other cultivars cultivated in the different climatic zones. Finally, the effect of the number of ratoons of the plot (i.e., the number of harvests of the plot) is not considered by the model. 
 In this study, 3 coupling methods were assessed based on forcing and recalibration: partial forcing (PF), complete forcing (CF), and complete forcing with recalibration (CFR). The forcing methods were based on NDVI-derived fIPAR values and compared with simulations that were run with the results of the MOSICAS model alone (RAW simulations). The recalibrating method was based on the yield observations, and the optimised parameter was the radiation use efficiency (RUE m ). In the partial forcing method (Fig.  4a ), values of simulated fIPAR were replaced whenever an observation was available. In the complete forcing method (Fig.  4b ), values of simulated fIPAR were replaced daily using fIPAR derived from the temporally interpolated NDVI data (Eq. (  3 )). The results obtained with partial and complete forcing were then compared in terms of yield estimation accuracy. The recalibration method was used to compute optimised values of RUE m after a complete forcing of the fIPAR values for each field. The optimisation was achieved using a MOSICAS-implemented simulated annealing algorithm  For each field of the dataset, the RUE m was optimised. The effects of the farm, the cultivar, the irrigation and the number of ratoons were assessed using an analysis of variance on the optimised values of RUE m in order to determine which factors significantly affect the value of the parameter.  Sub-datasets were made accordingly by aggregating all of the fields with the same significant factor (e.g., all of the fields planted with the same cultivar; Fig.  5 ). In each sub-dataset, random samplings were made in order to use 50% of the data as optimisation samples and the other 50% as validation samples. 
 
 Between 6 and 21 NDVI data points were available for each field during the growth cycle. Adjustments to the temporal NDVI model based on two continuous logistic functions (Eq. (  4 )) were made for each field to describe the evolution of the median NDVI in degree days (Fig.  6 ). The results were satisfactory, with a residual standard error varying between 0.001 and 0.070. The fIPAR and NDVI data were fitted using a linear regression. An analysis of variance showed no effect of the cultivar nor of the irrigation treatment on the relationship between the fIPAR and NDVI (p-values = 0.30 and 0.91, respectively). The results also show that when the NDVI saturates (i.e., NDVI = 0.85), the fIPAR may be underestimated. 
 
 As presented earlier, three types of simulations were conducted and evaluated in terms of yield assessment: • RAW simulations: MOSICAS simulations were made without any forcing of fIPAR in the model. • PF (partial forcing) simulations: replacements of the MOSICASsimulated values of fIPAR by NDVI-derived fIPAR whenever a satellite observation was available. • CF (complete forcing) simulations: replacements of the MOSICASsimulated values of fIPAR by daily interpolated NDVI-derived fIPAR. Linear regressions were established between the observed yield and the simulated yield for each type of simulation (RAW, partial and complete forcing). The results in Fig.  8  demonstrate a significant  increase in the relevance of the model with the forcing methods (R 2 = 0.21, 0.44 and 0.46 for raw simulation, PF simulation and CF simulation, respectively). An analysis of variance showed that, for RAW simulations, the yield estimation errors are significantly different for the irrigated and rainfed fields (p-value = 0.008). However, this difference tends to decrease when forcing the model (p-value = 0.050 and 0.450 for PF and CF simulations, respectively). The analysis of variance also showed no effect of the farmer in the yield estimation errors, for RAW, PF or CF simulations. The dispersion of the data, measured by the coefficient of variation, is smaller with the CF simulation (13.6% and 16.9% for complete and partial forcing, respectively). Finally, the results show that the RAW simulation tends to overestimate the yield, especially for the high yields (Fig.  8a ), whereas the CF simulation tends to underestimate it with a mean error of 10.68 t ha -1 (Fig.  8c ). 
 
 To reduce the bias in the case of complete forcing, we investigated the recalibration of the maximal radiation use efficiency (RUE m ) model parameter, which is directly linked to the daily dry matter production (Eq. (  4 )). In MOSICAS, the default value of RUE m is set to 3.22 g MJ -1 (Table  2 ). The optimisation was performed using a random sampling of 30 (50%) fields of the dataset after having completely forced the fIPAR values. The average value obtained for the 60 fields was 3.47 g MJ -1 , approximately 7.8% larger than the initial MOSICAS value (3.22 g MJ -1 ) (Table  2 ). To analyse the influence of several factors (cultivar, irrigation, number of ratoons, and farm) on the RUE m , the optimisation was then performed for each individual field. The analysis of variance of these results showed significant  differences according to the farmer, the number of ratoons and the cultivar (p-values = 0.0006, 0.014 and 0.009, respectively) but did not show any effect of the irrigation (p-value = 0.293). Finally, the analysis of variance also showed no interaction effects between the factors (p-values > 0.1). 
 Evaluations of the optimised values of RUE m were performed using validation sets corresponding in each case to the remaining 50% of the samples. Based on optimised values of RUE m for each farm, cultivar and number of ratoons (Table  2 ), new simulations were run with complete forcing. The results show that the use of the recalibrated RUE m parameter in the model increased the precision of the yield estimation with the RMSE decreasing from 12.2 t ha -1 for the simulated yield with an initial MOSICAS RUE m value of 10.8 t ha -1 for simulated yields with the cultivar-dependant RUE m (Table  3 ). The recalibration of the parameter for all of the fields combined reduced the error in the estimation of the yield but gave poorer results than did the recalibrations based on the cultivar or the number of ratoons of the field. The best results were obtained by recalibrating the RUE m according to the cultivar (R 2 = 0.63; RMSE = 10.8 t ha -1 ). 
 Forcing and recalibrating coupling methods were tested on the MOSICAS sugarcane model with remotely sensed data. Forcing was achieved using fIPAR values derived from SPOT4 and SPOT5 images. Two continuous logistic functions were used to describe the evolution at daily time steps of NDVI for each field. However, this method has limitations: the logistic regression may attenuate short-range variations in the NDVI. Furthermore, the frequency of the image acquisition is expected to impact the interpolation quality and, consequently, the final biomass, even considering the recent re-evaluation by  Simulations were run for 60 fields distributed between 2 climatically contrasted areas and 3 growth cycles with (1) no forcing (RAW), (2) replaced values of fIPAR whenever a satellite image was available (partial forcing) and (3) replacement of fIPAR values at daily time steps (complete forcing). The results show a significant improvement in the accuracy of the yield estimation by the model at field scale using both partial and complete forcing. The 2 methods gave comparable results considering the accuracy of the yield estimation (RMSE = 12.4 and 12.2 t ha -1 , respectively), but complete forcing showed a smaller dispersion of the data than did the partial forcing method (C V = 13.6% and 16.9%, respectively). A previous study conducted on sugarcane produced comparable results for the simulation of sugarcane fields located in one farm on Reunion Island and by completely forcing the model with LAI derived from SPOT images  The complete forcing method also indicated that the model with correct values of fIPAR tends to underestimate the yield. If we suppose that a stress applied to the plant will imply a diminution of the fIPAR, then errors remaining in the complete forcing simulations are expected to be linked to the parameterisation of the model. A key parameter in the MOSICAS process of yield estimation is the maximal radiation use efficiency (RUE m ), which is known to be sensitive to the cultivar and the number of ratoons of the sugarcane field  
 In conclusion, the results obtained in this study demonstrate that remote sensing data can be used at the field scale (1) to force ecophysiological models, resulting in the significant enhancement of the precision of the estimated yields and (2) to recalibrate these models, thus improving our knowledge of the ecophysiological processes involved. In addition, with the increase in the number of very-high-resolution satellites, we can expect remote sensing to be increasingly used for this purpose. However, to further explore the model-remote sensing coupling applications, the results obtained in this paper should be supported by those from a greater number of fields with a wider range of climatic conditions, in particular under severe drought episodes.
In recent decades, the productivity and income of smallholder farmers have increased considerably in South-East Asia, thanks to greater market integration  The sustainability concept is multidimensional and embodies ecological, economic and social dimensions  Multi-criteria tools are used to compare alternatives (e.g. different cropping or farming systems) against a set of criteria for decision-support  Expert advice and literature can also help inform the choice of quantitative verifiable criteria. However, the scientific perspective of experts is not "pure knowledge" without assumptions, values or preferred fields of interest  In order to identify criteria and strengthen the dialogue to foster the co-designing of more sustainable farming systems, it is necessary to bring together the perspectives of both farmers and scientists, because the perspectives of farmers and scientists taken separately are incomplete for dealing with complex sustainability issues. Mixed-method approaches that combine quantitative and qualitative information are helpful in enhancing the understanding of sustainability issues, by providing multiple ways of viewing a problem  The objective of our study was to identify relevant criteria for a sustainability assessment of farming systems in northern Laos, with specific emphasis on combining farmer and scientist perspectives and documenting how the criteria were chosen. The set of criteria identified would be the first step for then defining, in a later study, some specific indicators to be quantified for analysing the conditions under which maize cultivation can be sustainable for different farm types in the region. The specific objectives of this study were to (i) identify farmers' objectives and to understand their priorities and perceptions with regard to sustainability, for farm-level strategic resource allocation and plot-level tactical crop management, by way of serious games and Qmethodology, (ii) identify the determinants and criteria of maize cropping system sustainability through a plot-level scientific agronomic diagnosis, and (iii) aggregate farmers' perspectives and insights from the agronomic diagnosis into a set of sustainability criteria that could inform multi-criteria sustainability assessment. The region of Xieng Khouang province in northern Laos was chosen as a typical case study of the market integration of farming systems. 
 In what follows, we start by describing the overall approach and the study sites (2.1 and 2.2), followed by the methods employed to (i) capture farmers' perceptions of sustainability and (ii) gather scientific insights on sustainability. 
 To inform the selection of locally relevant and scientifically sound criteria for sustainability assessment, we combined different approaches and methods. Serious games were used to identify farmers' objectives (see Section 2.3.), Q-methodology was applied to better understand farmers' perceptions of soil fertility (see Section 2.3.) and an agronomic diagnosis was used to identify factors determining the agronomic and environmental performance of crop management (see Section 2.4.) (Fig.  1 ). At the end of each step described below, i.e. serious games, Q-methodology and agronomic diagnosis, outputs were summarized into lists of criteria. Eventually, these lists were aggregated into a final list of sustainability criteria. We carried out a card game in four villages (Lé, Xay, Leng and Dokham) and a group game in three villages (Lé, Xay and Leng). Qmethodology was implemented in four villages that captured farm and soil type variability (Lé, Leng, Nadou and Xay). Field monitoring for the agronomic diagnosis was set up in three villages (Xay, Nadou and Leng) covering an area of 7 km 2 (Fig.  S1 , Appendix A). The villages of Lé, Leng and Dokham were selected because an exhaustive agricultural census was available describing all farm households using basic variables (cropped areas, head of cattle and number of people per family). The villages of Xay and Nadou had soils with a high sand content and were added to increase the representativeness of soil type variability. 
 We selected the Kham district in Xieng Khouang province located in northern Laos, close to the Vietnamese border (19°38′N, 103°33E; 605 m above sea level) (Fig.  S1, Appendix A ) as a typical case of the market integration of farming systems with the commercialisation of hybrid maize. Over the past two decades, farmers have switched from extensive manually cultivated upland rice systems to cash crop systems with hybrid maize cultivation, combined with the use of moto-mechanization, herbicides and mineral fertilizers. This rapid switch to maize cultivation was favoured by the increase in maize prices and in the demand for maize from the thriving livestock feed industry in Vietnam in the 2000s. Today, rural development stakeholders in northern Laos commonly believe that maize cultivation is not sustainable and refer to it as 'resource-mining' agriculture with a negative impact on the environment, i.e. leading to increased soil erosion, loss of soil fertility and chemical pollution  There is nevertheless limited empirical evidence quantifying environmental degradation  Our case study was located in the Kham basin, an area of Kham district where maize has spread very rapidly because of relatively fertile and flat valleys with moderate elevation and slopes (500-600 m asl). Lowlands are dedicated to rice cultivation and uplands to forest, pastures and maize cultivation. Hybrid maize is sown once a year during the rainy season (May-October) in sole stands without rotation with other crops. Cultivation starts in early April with tillage services using tractors equipped with a disc plough. Maize is either sown manually with two seeds in a hole made with a digging stick, or mechanically with a seed drill mounted on the rototiller used for paddy rice preparation. If applied, compound (NPK 16-20-0) mineral fertilizer is used. The herbicides commonly used are atrazine (1-Chloro-3-ethylamino-5isopropylamino-2,4,6-triazine), paraquat (1,1′-Dimethyl-4,4′-bipyridinium dichloride), and glyphosate (N-(phosphonomethyl)glycine). Europe banned atrazine in 2003. Paraquat was banned in Laos in 2011, but is still sold on local markets by small retailers  
 We used two types of serious games to reveal farmers' objectives. The participation level was consultative  
 The aim of the individual card game, designed by the authors, was to reveal farmers' main objectives at farm level with a five-year perspective. Following the approach of Berbel and Rodriguez-Ocaña 
 
 
 Farmers' percepƟons of sustainability Researcher perspecƟve Farmers' perspecƟve Field monitoring network: small plots in farmers' fields Playing serious games + Q-methodology QuanƟtaƟve data on determinants of cropping system sustainability Fig.  1 . General approach of this study to identify complementary perspectives and determine a set of locally relevant sustainability criteria. (1998), we related farmers' objectives to "values" that guide action or change. Values are defined as "permanent property of the individuals, less liable to change with time and circumstances"  The game was composed of three sets of cards: "activity cards" representing farming activities, such as paddy rice, maize, cattle or offfarm job; "asset cards" representing assets, such as a motorbike or a sowing machine, and "bonus cards" representing extra resources, such as a labour workforce, land and money (Fig.  2A ). In a first step, the farmers were invited to discover and understand the cards. Then, each farmer was asked to tell the story of their farm and to explain the main choices they had had to make since they had become the head of the household. During the storytelling, the interviewer asked questions to elicit the reasons for the farmers' decisions and illustrated the changes by adding or removing activity and asset cards. The farmer was invited to validate or modify the deck to get accustomed to the use of the cards. The card combination at the end of the game represented the current farm situation (see example in Fig.  2B ). In a second phase, the farmer was invited to expose and explain their future five-year perspective with cards. Then, the interviewer substituted some activities by others to provoke the farmer's reaction. If the farmer rejected the proposed additional changes due to land, money or labour constraints, the interviewer displayed the corresponding bonus cards. Bonus cards were useful to avoid finishing the game with only a list of farmers' constraints rather than farmers' objectives. In a final step, the interviewer reformulated farmer choices and reactions until a list of objectives corresponding to the  
 The aim of the group game was to identify farmers' important attributes for deciding which crop to grow on uplands. The game is called TAKIT and was created by  
 Q-methodology was not directly used to identify criteria, but rather as a complementary method to deepen our understanding of the farmer discourses used to select criteria during the group game and the individual card game. The group game revealed that farmers were concerned with soil fertility when deciding which crop to grow (See Section 3.1.). We used a Q-methodology design  S1  and Fig.  S2 in Appendix A ). Statements were selected to maximize the diversity of opinions about soil fertility based on narratives the researchers heard during the three years of the study. We sampled 19 farmers in four villages (seven in Leng, five in Lé, four in Xay and three in Nadou). The sample maximized the diversity of soil types and degree of intensification in maize cropping systems. The Q-methodology was carried out individually with each farmer. Statements were written on cards in the Lao language and the interviewer first read all the cards to allow the farmer to ask questions for clarification. The farmers were first asked to divide the statements into three piles during the reading, i.e. statements they (i) agreed with, ii) disagreed with and iii) were neutral, doubtful or undecided about. The farmers were then asked to read the 47 cards and place them on the floor following a design that mimicked a normal distribution (Fig.  S2 in Appendix A ). The design had to be filled incrementally from left with cards they mostly disagreed with (score of -5) to right with cards they mostly agreed with (score of +5). These 19 Q-sorts (i.e. farmers' statement classifications) were analysed with the centroid method and a varimax rotation (PQMethod software, see  
 
 To identify plot-level sustainability criteria, farmer-managed fields were monitored from 2016 to 2018 following the method of  1  shows the monitored variables. Due to losses at harvest, 99 plots (out of 111) had observations for all the variables monitored: weed cover, pests, nutrient deficiency, yield components, crop management, soil analysis and weather data. At the end of field monitoring, a soil typology was established with hierarchical clustering (R software, FactoMineR package,  
 In order to identify the main factors driving plot agronomic and environmental performance, we calculated a range of variables derived from direct measurements, crop model simulations (Potential crop Yield Estimator (PYE),  2 ). The relative yield gap, water stress, potential nitrogen balance (N balance), nutrient deficiency, weed cover and pest damage score were considered as variables related to agronomic performance. The PYE model was used to simulate the potential (Y0) and water-limited (Yw) yields of the 111 monitored plots that informed the relative yield gap calculation. Y0 is the yield achieved when water and nutrient supplies exceed crop requirements and biotic stresses are absent. Factors determining potential yield are incoming solar radiation, temperature, atmospheric [CO 2 ], crop genetic characteristics and canopy light interception ability  2  gives more details on the calculation of the variables related to agronomic performance. The herbicide treatment index and erosion risks approximated with the length of the bare-soil period from ploughing to sowing, N balance and fertilizer doses, were considered as variables related to environmental performance (Table  2 ). A first analysis looked at relating maize yield to the variables deemed important for agronomic performance (Table  2 ), i.e. single factor linear regressions of yield against water stress, potential N balance, and pest/weed scores. In a second analysis, two classification and regression tree (CART) models  2  for calculation). Plausible yield-limiting and yield-reducing factors were set as explanatory variables: highest weed score, maize planting density, N balance and soil type. The second CART was performed with the main factor explaining yield gap variability (identified with the first CART) as the target variable. In the second CART, variables related to crop management were set as explanatory variables: i) weed management with 'false seed-bed', i.e. ploughing, letting weeds grow for one month and ploughing again (or herbicide spraying); ii) amount of work devoted to manual weeding; iii) sowing hole density at emergence; iv) number of days between last tillage and sowing and v) herbicide treatment index (see Table  2  for calculation). Eventually, selection of the main drivers of variability in performance and impacts informed the creation of the sustainability criteria to be selected. 
 
 
 For respectively 83% and 80% of farmers, the objectives "be rice self-sufficient" and "have high incomes for savings" were the most important objectives (Table  3 ). The objectives "reduce work and effort" (77%), "have small regular incomes monthly for family expenditures" (77%), "diversify income" (63%) and "reduce cash-flow needed" (33%)  
 Variables used to explain plot-level agronomic and environmental performance (with units in brackets). Yw: potential water-limited yield, Ya: observed actual yield, LAIw: Leaf Area Index, water limited, LAI0: potential Leaf Area Index, Y0: potential yield, Nmin: nitrogen mineralized from total soil organic nitrogen (kg ha -1 ), Nfert: amount of mineral nitrogen applied (kg ha -1 ), Nuptake: nitrogen uptake from soil by maize (kg ha-1 ), NtotSoil: total soil organic nitrogen (kg ha -1 ). were also frequently mentioned. A substantial share of farmers valued objectives related to sustainability: "transfer a viable farm to the next generation" (27%) and "avoid herbicides" (23%). We determined five farm-level criteria by aggregating the objectives that mattered to farmers: 1) "Farm income -amount, consistency, cash-flow and risks", synthetized from the objectives "have high income for savings", "have small regular incomes monthly for family expenditures", "diversify income" and "reduce cash-flow needed" 2) "Diversity of activities", synthetized from the objectives "diversify income" and "obtain incomes during the dry season" 3) "Workload peak and drudgery of work", synthetized from the objectives "improve work productivity" and "reduce work and efforts" 4) "Rice and forage self-sufficiency", related to the objectives "be rice self-sufficient" and "be self-sufficient in animal feed" 5) "Farmer health", related to the objective "Avoid herbicides" because it expressed farmers' health concerns when spraying herbicide. The objective "to be able to transfer a viable farm to the next a The question was mentioned in the preliminary steps but no farmers finally ranked it as important. generation" was related to overall farm sustainability (i.e. the performance for all the above-mentioned criteria) and was not included as a criterion itself. The objective "preserve a traditional activity" was not used as a criterion because (i) it was mentioned by only a small number of farmers (7%) and (ii) "traditional activity" would be hard to quantify. We did not consider the objective "perform activities that are easily manageable" as a specific criterion, but it was included in the criteria "farm income -amount, consistency, cash-flow and risks" and "workload peak, drudgery of work". Indeed farmers during the group game revealed their fear of financial loss resulting from inadequate crop management and their reluctance to devote to a crop a large amount of work with too many interventions (see section below). 
 Important attributes for choosing a crop differed between villages (Table  3 ). The two most important attributes for choosing a crop were i) suitability for village soil types and ii) improvement in soil fertility in Leng, i) storability of harvest and ii) ease of crop management in Lé, i) high yield and ii) ease of crop management in Xay. The game revealed the importance of soil fertility improvement for farmers, despite great variability between villages (score of 27 in Leng, 6 in Lé, while soil fertility was evoked through the ability of the new crop to be easily grown on village soil types in Xay). High crop yield was important in Xay (score: 30), whereas in Leng a good selling price and market channel availability were scored higher than yield. In the fourth step of the game, farmers explained that the "ease of crop management" attribute originated from (i) their fear of financial loss resulting from inadequate crop management and (ii) their reluctance to devote to a crop a large amount of work with too many interventions. The storability of harvest originated from the farmers' wish to control the selling period and prices. We determined five plot-level criteria by aggregating the attributes that mattered to farmers: 1) "Economic performance -gross margin, return on investment, cashflow and risk" (from the questions "Does it have a high yield?", "Does the crop have a good selling price?", "Does it have a good market (lot of buyers)?", "Is it expensive to grow it?", "Can we get a good benefit from it?", "Is the price stable? "and "Does it require a lot of fertilizer?") 2) Land productivity (from the question "Does it have a high yield?") 3) Susceptibility to pests (from the question "Is it a crop susceptible to pests?") 4) Work productivity and drudgery (from the questions "Is it easy to grow?" and "Does it require a lot of labour?") 5) Soil fertility (from the questions "Does it improve the soil?" and "Is it suitable for village soils?") We did not use the question "Is it good for the environment?" because "good" was fuzzy and subjective, making it hard to identify a related sustainability criterion. We did not use the question "Does it require irrigation?" due to farmers' misunderstanding, i.e. irrigation is available for lowlands, whereas the game was targeted at upland crop attributes. The TAKIT game, although played to identify plot-level criteria, informed the identification of a farm-level criterion "farm autonomy". Farm autonomy was related to the questions "Can we use it for our own consumption?" and "Is it storable". Farmers were willing to cultivate upland crops to reduce food purchases (meaning lower autonomy) and farmers related storability to their ability to choose marketing timing and prices. 
 Farmers agreed on five statements regarding soil fertility (Table  4 ): "The soil is fertile when it gives enough food to the plants to grow without mineral fertilizer addition"(84% of farmers), "Soils in flat land cleared from very old forest remain fertile even after 15 years of maize cultivation"(63% of farmers), "When there is enough rain, most of the soils of the village are still able to give good yields"(42% of farmers), "If the soil is deep, I know for sure that the soil is fertile"(47% of farmers), "Low crop yield in a good climatic year is an indicator of low fertility"(47% of farmers). They disagreed on three statements (Table  4 ): "Infertile maize fields have a lot of weeds" (63% of farmers), "Soils are more exhausted than before, but could give more yield today thanks to mineral fertilizer, a good variety and herbicide" (42% of farmers), "Low maize density is the main cause of low yield compared with low soil fertility" (42% of farmers). We identified three contrasting opinions about soil fertility. "Progressive-minded" farmers (opinion 1-O1, Table  4 ) agreed that (i) "Legumes can improve soil fertility" and (ii) "If the soil has a black colour, it is a fertile soil, and if the soil is red or yellow it is an infertile soil", and (iii) "Soil fertility has decreased because of ploughing every year". They disagreed with "Farming practices today will impact the future generations, but there is no other alternative". Farmers with opinion 1 were slightly more concerned by long-term issues than the others, since the statement "I want to preserve the fertility of my soil for the future farm of my children" was one of their five most agreed statements (Table  4 ). Those farmers also disagreed with "It is not worth it to invest time and money in soil fertility". By contrast, "Incomeminded" farmers (opinion 2-O2, Table  4 ) attached more importance to soil structure after ploughing and disagreed strongly with the statement "Farmers have a duty to conserve soil for the next generation, whatever the impact on today's profits". Soil fertility was not only equivalent to high yields for them, they disagreed strongly with "No matter the colour and the structure of the soil, a fertile soil has a high yield without adding mineral fertilizer". "No-alternative" farmers (opinion 3-O3, Table  4 ) agreed that (i) "Farming practices today will impact the future generations, but there is no other alternative", (ii) "A fertile soil is mellow and has a good structure after ploughing". They also believe that "Soil erosion leads to a decline in fertility because the most fertile layer disappears" (most agreed statement). They disagreed with (i) "A fertile soil is a soil where it is easy to obtain a satisfactory plant density at emergence with a seed drill", (ii) "The use of herbicides makes the soil less fertile". The identification of "progressive-minded" farmers showed that soil fertility criteria were not necessarily related to shortterm income maximization in farmer's minds. Interestingly, the Qmethodology showed that a group of farmers expressed a complex perception of soil fertility beyond a mere concern for high yields and immediate profits, i.e. they were willing to preserve it for future generations. Even "income-minded" farmers did not relate soil fertility to high yields alone. The outcomes of the Q-methodology led the researchers to keep the soil fertility criteria identified with the TAKIT game as an independent criterion not necessarily related to the economic performance and land productivity criteria. The Q-methodology allowed the researchers to add "soil erosion" to the list of plot-level criteria previously established after the group game. Overall, the serious games showed that socio-economic dimensions generally prevailed over environmental long-term perspectives in farmers' objectives. Nevertheless, some farmers valued some long-term issues, such as their capacity to transfer a viable farm to their children and to maintain soil fertility for the next generation. The games highlighted the prevalence of the socio-economic dimension in farmers' objectives, and the crucial role of maize performance for farmers. 
 Farmers' soil fertility perception based on a sample of statements representing contrasting narratives on soil fertility. The three types of opinions (O1, O2 and O3) were identified with the centroid method and a varimax rotation (see Section 2.3). Only the statements that created the most distinguishing classification among the different opinions are shown. The full list of statements can be found in Table  S1    
 -For which there is a statistical difference with O1 and O3 A fertile soil is mellow and has a good structure after ploughing 0 5 3 After ploughing, a fertile soil has clods that easily burst with rainfall -1 5 -1 Mineral fertilizer makes the soil stronger -5 0 -4 The use of herbicides makes the soil less fertile 0 -2 -4 Farmers have a duty to conserve soil for the next generation, whatever the impact on today's profits 2 -4 2 -Most agreed statements A fertile soil is mellow and has a good structure after ploughing 0 5 3 After ploughing, a fertile soil has clods that easily burst with rainfall -1 5 -1 Soils in flat land cleared from very old forest remain fertile even after 15 years of maize cultivation 3 4 4 Fallow was used before maize to help the soil rest and soil fertility increase 3 4 3 -Most disagreed statements Infertile maize fields have a lot of weeds -3 -5 -3 No matter the colour and the structure of the soil, a fertile soil has high yield without adding mineral fertilizer -1 -5 -1 Some soils were infertile before maize, others became infertile due to maize cultivation -1 -4 -2 Farmers have a duty to conserve soil for the next generation, whatever the impact on today's profits 2 -4 2 
 -For which there is a statistical difference with O1 and O2 Farming practices today will impact the future generations, but there is no other alternative -2 0 4 A fertile soil is mellow and has a good structure after ploughing 0 5 3 A fertile soil is a soil where it is easy to obtain a satisfactory plant density at emergence even if rainfall events are scarce 2 3 -2 A fertile soil is a soil where it is easy to obtain a satisfactory plant density at emergence with a seed drill 0 3 -3 The use of herbicides makes the soil less fertile 0 -2 -4 -Most agreed statements The soil is fertile when it gives enough food to the plants to grow without mineral fertilizer addition 5 4 5 Soil erosion leads to a decline in fertility because the most fertile layer disappears 2 3 5 Soils in flat land cleared from very old forest remain fertile even after 15 years of maize cultivation 3 4 4 It is important to prevent soil fertility loss even if we have to work more by doing so 1 -1 4 -Most disagreed statements Fertilizer and cow manure are the same for fertility improvement -3 -2 -5 Maintaining soil fertility is not labour-intensive -4 -3 -5 
 Constraints and sustainability issues possibly occurring in maize areas, as found during a review of local knowledge and used to set up field monitoring, can be found in Appendix A, Table  S2 . Farmers distinguished three soil types during participatory mapping: red-sandy soils (low yields), loamy-clayey soils (medium to high yields) and yellow sandy soils (medium to high yields). Farmers identified three types of crop management: high-input intensified systems (mechanical sowing, harrowing after ploughing, fertilizer and herbicide use), medium-input intensified systems (mechanical sowing, no harrowing, herbicide or fertilizer) and low-input intensified systems (hand sowing, no harrowing and herbicide). The participatory mapping combined with the review of local knowledge and field visits helped identify the following criteria to select the plots to monitor: farmer-reported yields, slope, level of agricultural intensification, soil type and soil quality as visually appraised by the farmer. After monitoring, five contrasting types of cropping systems were identified (Table  5 ) depending on slope, type of sowing (mechanical or manual), amount of herbicide use, and time between soil preparation and sowing. Clayey-loamy soils, the dominant soil type in the monitored plots, had, on average, an organic nitrogen content of 0.096%, a soil organic matter content of 2.44%, a total cationic exchange capacity of 9.7 me/100 g and a pH of 6.01 (see Fig.  S3  for detailed results of soil analysis and soil type). Herbicide application varied greatly (Table  5 ). The herbicide treatment index for cropping system 3 (moderate slopes, hand or mechanical sowing on clayey-loamy soils, short period of bare soil before sowing) was more than three times the recommended dose, whereas it was equal to 0 for cropping system 4 (flat land, mechanical sowing on clayey-loamy soils, medium period of bare soil). Fertilization rates were low with 20 kg of N ha -1 , on average, in fertilized plots and never exceeded 40 kg N ha -1 . The potential N balance was below -10 kg ha -1 for 90% of the plots (Table  5 ). The potential N balance was lowest on the sandy soils of cropping system 2 (flat land, mechanical sowing on low-fertility sandy soils, medium period of bare soil). Risks of erosion were either due to slopes or due to a long period between ploughing and sowing. The number of days between ploughing and sowing varied from 3 to 108 and averaged 29 days. Cropping systems 3 and 5 had contrasting erosion risks, the former having a short bare soil period before crop installation and the latter a long period, due to a false seed-bed practice to reduce weed pressure. The average potential (Y0) and water limited (Yw) yields were 6.2 and 6.0 t ha -1 , respectively, for the 111 plots simulated with the crop model. The limited difference between Y0 and YW indicated a low impact of water stress on yields in the monitored plots. This was not surprising because northern Laos has a humid sub-tropical climate. The Kham basin had a total annual rainfall of 854, 875 and 1569 mm in 2016, 2017 and 2018, respectively. The observed maize yields (Ya) in the monitored plots were markedly below Yw and highly variable. Ya ranged from 0.7 to 5.3 t ha -1 and averaged 2.8 t ha -1 (Table  6 ). In all, 25% of the plots had a yield below 1.9 t ha -1 . The relative yield gap ranged from 8% to 89%, and 25% of the plots had a very high relative  
 Types of maize cropping system according to crop management and soil type. Environmental performances per type are displayed in the second part of the table. "low", "medium", "high" correspond to equal distribution of quantitative observations in three qualitative classes. See Table  2 : for details on environmental indicator computation. Field monitoring revealed the prevalence of weed infestation to explain yield variability, itself mainly explained by sowing hole density. Yields were correlated to "Highest weed score" (R 2 = 0.19, P < .001) and potential N balance (R 2 = 0.08, P < .005). Weed infestation was significantly correlated with sowing hole density (Fig.  3 ). When dealing with crop competition with weeds in our context, sowing hole density mattered more than plant density. Indeed farmers dropped two seeds into each hole by hand, while the seed drill dropped one seed per hole. Therefore, for the same sowing hole density, manual sowing led to a plant density double that achieved with the seed drill, but with the same space (and light for weeds) between holes. Sowing hole density varied greatly from 1.1 to 8.1 sowing holes m -2 . A higher sowing hole density was achieved with mechanical sowing compared with manual sowing (Fig.  3B ), but only 4% of farmers achieved the optimum sowing hole density of 7.1 plant m -2 enabled by the seed drill. Pest stress was not identified as an explanatory variable of yield variation, as only 6% of the plots experienced it. In CART, "Highest weed score" was the main variable explaining relative yield gap variability (Fig.  4A ). The plot relative yield gap (Yr) was categorized in eight groups (R 2 = 0.37) according to criteria of decreasing importance: highest weed score, potential N balance, and  Fig.  4 . Classification and regression tree models to describe relative yield gap as a function of yield constraining variables (A), and highest weed score as a function of technical management variables (B). In each box, the predicted value is on top and the percentage of observations below. highestWeedScore: highest weed score, NitrogenBal30: Nitrogen balance (kg ha -1 ), PlantDensHarv: maize plant density at harvest (plant m -2 ). IFTHerbi: Index of herbicide treatment, HandWeeding: amount of work dedicated to hand weeding (man day), HoleDensEmerg: sowing hole density (holes m -2 ) and NbrDaysLastSoilTillageSow: number of days between last soil tillage and sowing. plant density. The average relative yield gap was 59% for plots with "Highest weed scores" above 4.8, and 45% for plots below 4.8. For plots with a high weed score, Yr was 69% when the potential N balance was below -78 kgN ha -1 and 54% when the N balance was above that threshold. Similar interpretations could be derived by reading the other branches of the tree. Weed infestation variability was first explained by sowing hole density (Fig.  4B ), followed by herbicide doses and number of days between the last soil tillage and sowing (R 2 = 0.47). The key outcomes revealed by the agronomic diagnosis were: i) high yield variability, high yield gaps and a high risk of failure, ii) low sowing density leading to: high weed pressure, low yields, low resource use efficiency, a high workload for weeding and a low return on cash investment, iii) herbicide overuse and leaching risks due to weed infestation, iv) erosion risks due to a long bare-soil period between ploughing and sowing, v) risks of fertility loss because of a negative N balance in maize plots. The latter can be explained by the fact that maize fields were used for cattle roaming in the dry season and the manure collected at night was exclusively used for lowland rice. The outcomes of the agronomic diagnosis informed the determination of the following plot-level criteria: 1) Land productivity: yield variability and risk of failure, 2) Soil erosion, 3) Susceptibility to weeds, 4) Resource use efficiency, 5) Work productivity and drudgery, 6) Herbicide risks, 7) Economic performance. At farm level the agronomic diagnosis informed the determination of the criterion "Fertility transfer". Eventually, we added criterion sensitivity to climate variability, because environmental impacts (e.g. erosion, herbicide leaching) were also related to rainfall events. We added susceptibility to pests and biodiversity criteria, because the agronomic diagnosis revealed that maize fields were managed in a sole stand mono-cropping system, reinforcing weed infestation over the years. 
 
 Fig.  5  shows the final set of criteria resulting from an integration of farmer and scientist perspectives. Every criterion identified can be quantified with indicators. On the left-hand side of the figure, the final plot-level criteria are displayed combining the serious games and Qmethodology results with the agronomic diagnosis: economic performance, land productivity, susceptibility to pests, weeds, diseases and climate variability, work productivity and drudgery, soil erosion, herbicide risks, biodiversity, soil fertility, and resource use efficiency. To establish this final list, the criteria originating from the serious games were grouped with those from the agronomic diagnosis, e.g. "economic performance" includes gross margin (derived from the TAKIT game), return on investment (derived from the agronomic diagnosis and the TAKIT game) and cash flow (derived from the card game and the TAKIT game). 
 On the right-hand side of Fig.  5 , the final farm-level criteria are displayed combining the serious games and Q-methodology results with the agronomic diagnosis: farm income (amount, consistency, risk and cash flow), diversity of activities (risks), workload peak, drudgery of work, farmer autonomy, rice/forage self-sufficiency, fertility transfer, and farmer's health risks due to herbicides. To establish this final list, the criteria originating from the serious games were grouped with those from the agronomic diagnosis, e.g. farmer health includes herbicide overuse (derived from agronomic diagnosis) and farmers' concerns when spraying herbicide (derived from the card game).   
 
 
 
 From the farmers' perspective, socio-economic objectives were predominant and food security was crucial. This was foreseen, given the high poverty incidence among farmers in the study region  
 Maize cropping system performance varied widely, but single factors (weed and pest competition, N balance, and water stress) explained only 19% (r 2 = 0.19) of the variations (at best) and CART 37% (at best). Substantial remaining unexplained variation is, however, a common feature of on-farm trials in a smallholder context  S2  in Appendix A) was the predominance of weed pressure over soil fertility to explain yield variability. Soil fertility remains an issue for the long-term sustainability of cropping systems, given the negative farm-level nutrient balance found in the region  Direct measurements are more time-consuming and cost-intensive than rapid farmer surveys and cannot be implemented easily to reach a large number of farmers. Agronomic diagnosis is a methodology easily applied by an experienced agronomist trained to implement it quickly over one or two cropping seasons. However, in line with our objective to publish a scientific paper, plot monitoring was carried out over three cropping seasons, i.e. a long period for a prior analysis to guide the design and implementation of sustainable options for farmers. Field monitoring was necessary to dismiss preconceived ideas (i.e. low yields are due to poor soil fertility) and to explain the drivers of sustainability (see Section 3.2). Moreover, the quantitative data collected on maize cropping systems were crucial for multi-criteria assessment at farm level and were the basis for the quantification of indicators at that level. 
 We identified some pitfalls of existing broad-based methods for our case study, namely i) a lack of integration of multiple perspectives (farmers, experts and scientists) to identify the sustainability issues at stake, ii) an insufficient consideration of the local context for criteria selection, and iii) a lack of transparency regarding the scientific logical reasoning that led to that selection  
 The identified sustainability criteria determine the results of the assessment. In our case study, integrating knowledge from scientists and farmers with a mixed-method approach made it possible to embrace the plurality of views on sustainability. Scientific analyses at plot level were useful for explaining and understanding the biophysical processes at stake in sustainability issues. Qualitative data from the serious games and Q-methodology at plot and farm levels were useful for understanding farmers' perceptions, objectives and concerns. The two types of knowledge taken separately would have been incomplete for determining relevant criteria, because: i) quantitative insights obtained in field monitoring lacked farm-scale contextualization integrating farmers' decisions and constraints; ii) qualitative insights gained through the serious games were village-specific and difficult to generalize. Field monitoring therefore helped in understanding certain outputs of the serious games results. Combining the two perspectives, we showed that farmers' willingness to maintain soil fertility contrasted with current soil management associated with negative N balances and risks of erosion. Field monitoring showed that, in the current state of maize cropping systems, it was probably not profitable for farmers to invest time and money for fertility management in fields with poor crop performance, partly due to poor crop establishment and the resulting weed pressure. Our study revealed discrepancies between farmers' perspectives and agronomic facts: farmers generally disagreed with the statement "Low maize density is the main cause of low yield compared with low soil fertility" (See Section 3.1), while field monitoring revealed the crucial role of a low plant density and subsequent weed infestation in explaining low yields. An interesting result of the agronomic diagnosis to complement farmers' perspective was the three criteria not explicitly mentioned by farmers in the serious games and Q-methodology: erosion risks due to bare soil, low sowing density leading to risks of high weed pressure, herbicide overuse and leaching risks due to weed pressure.  The TAKIT game pinpointed a village effect on farmers' preoccupations (see Section 3.1), which was elucidated thanks to the field monitoring. In all, 80% of monitored fields in Leng belonged to cropping systems 4 and 5 (higher fertilizer rates), while 65% of monitored fields in Xay belonged to cropping system 1 (steep slopes, hand sowing, no fertilizer on low-fertility soils) (see Section 3.2). Farmers in the village of Leng obtained slightly higher yields (3.12 t ha -1 ) than their counterparts in Xay (2.54 t ha -1 ). Consequently, farmers in Leng gave more importance to a good selling price and market channels than the farmers in Xay. 
 We compared our final set of criteria with some other sets used in existing generic methods  
 Scientific objectivity did not lie in the fact that science brought our understanding closer to "pure knowledge" devoid of subjectivity  Our approach highlighted the role of science and the importance of quantitative data for understanding sustainability, a value-based concept. Any scientific assessment has assumptions, values or preferred fields of interest  In developing countries, where farms have shifted from subsistence to market-oriented systems, sustainability evaluations are challenging. Quantitative data are scarce, or lack reliability, because they are often based on farmer-reporting (e.g.  
 Over a period of three years we applied a multi-level and multimethod approach that combined farmers' and researchers' perceptions of sustainability in northern Laos. This study contributes to the need to integrate farmers' and scientists' views and opinions on sustainability, as each vision is incomplete without the other. Several complementary analyses, from plot to farm level, helped to identify a set of locally relevant sustainability criteria. These criteria can be used to compare different farming systems in relation to their sustainability. The list of criteria identified in this study is currently being used to explore with ex-ante farm modelling pathways, to improve the sustainability of maize-based systems in the region. We found that, beyond the standard socio-economic criteria expected for poor farmers, farmers also valued other long-term sustainability criteria (e.g. transfer a viable farm, impact of agricultural practises on human health and soil fertility). At plot level, field monitoring showed that the ability of farmers to ensure good crop establishment was a strong determinant of maize system sustainability. Today in the Kham basin, while it is true that maize-based cropping systems are facing serious sustainability issues, our diagnosis revealed that it is mainly inadequate crop management during crop installation that leads to low resource use efficiency and unsustainable trajectories. The approach presented here is useful for understanding farming system sustainability based on local priorities, as perceived by farmers and scientists. The approach can assist the design of multi-criteria assessments of alternatives to the current maize-based cropping systems and contribute to informing priority-setting for institutional development and agricultural policies in the region.
Sugarcane is an important crop grown worldwide, with over 1.84 billion tons of sugarcane grown on 26 million ha worldwide  Increasing demand for food, energy and other bio-products, coupled with the limited supply of suitable land and irrigation water, creates the need to maximise sugarcane yields and resource-use efficiency  1 ) by environment (E) interactions, and process-based crop models capable of simulating G differences in biologically-realistic ways can support plant breeding by assisting in identifying genotypic traits that confer advantages under particular Es  Several process-based sugarcane crop growth simulation models have been developed, including  The exploration of genotypic trait modelling in sugarcane has been limited  The International Consortium for Sugarcane Modelling (ICSM) launched a project in 2010 to evaluate and improve modelling of sugarcane GxE interactions, in order to support model-assisted breeding. A set of field trials was conducted in four countries, with three cultivars common to all sites (as well as other cultivars grown in fewer of the sites). The rationale behind choosing sites and cultivars from different countries was to maximise potential G, E and GxE interaction effects, thereby permitting better, and perhaps easier, assessment of model abilities to predict growth. The field data for these trials were presented in  Rigorous evaluation of any sugarcane crop model for a factorial 'GxE' study, has not, to our knowledge, been conducted. It is essential that the prediction performance for G, E and GxE interaction effects of widely-used sugarcane models is established before they can be applied to assist plant breeding. Identification of weaknesses in such models could also lead to improvements that make models more suitable for supporting breeding. The overall goal of this study was to evaluate three sugarcane models' capabilities for simulating genotypic differences in crop development and growth in different environments, using an international growth analysis data set consisting of three genotypes grown in four  
 
 Eight growth analysis experiments were conducted: plant and first ratoon crops of cultivars N41, R570 and CP88-1762 grown at Belle Glade (Florida, USA), Chiredzi (Zimbabwe), La Mare (Reunion Island, France) and Pongola (South Africa). Plant crops were established on adjacent fields. Field 1 ("plant crop") was sampled in the first year up until 12 months' age; the second field ("first ratoon crop") cut back after 12 months (approximately) and was sampled in the second year. This two-field approach prevented inconsistent ratoon age consequences of destructive in-field sampling and subsequent mid-season regrowth in the preceding plant crop. Plots were nine rows (13.5 m) wide and 11 m long (≈150 m 2 ), and each treatment was replicated four times. Non-destructive measurements (replicated three times) of shoot population were taken at 2-4 week intervals, and PAR interception was measured using quantum line sensors 2-7 times (depending on the experiment) mostly during the partial canopy phase. Destructive samples were taken at 3, 6, 9 and 12 months after crop start; 18 m 2 samples (replicated four times) were cut and weighed. Sub-samples of 3 m 2 were then divided into biomass fractions, weighed, oven-dried and weighed again; dry matter contents from the sub-samples were then multiplied by the original 18 m 2 aerial fresh mass sample weights to determine dry mass values for different above-ground biomass components. It was intended that all crops would be well-fertilised and irrigated sufficiently to avoid water stress. In practice, significant water stress could not be avoided for the Chiredzi and La Mare plant (P) crops, and the Pongola first ratoon (R1) crop. This paper focusses primarily on the unstressed experiments. The experiments are fully described in  
 Each experiment (equivalent to environment (i.e. one season at one site), both designated "E") was characterised following the methods described in  
 Observed and simulated apparent radiation use efficiency (RUEa, g/ MJ) were calculated as above-ground dry biomass (ADM, t/ha) at final harvest divided by seasonal canopy-intercepted PAR. The energy content of PAR was assumed to be 50 % of observed SRAD. Observed daily fractional interception of photosynthetically-active radiation (FIPAR, %) values were interpolated between observations using a fitted model based on the Canesim model canopy algorithm  • Cd) was calculated from fitted daily FIPAR values for each G and E (for observed and simulated data). G, E and GxE interaction effects were evaluated using the following additive linear model: X ij = X + G i + E j + GE ij (1) where X ij is observed or simulated FIPARa, RUEa or ADM, X‾ is the grand mean value calculated over all environments and genotypes, Gi is the average value for genotype i, and Ej is the average value for environment j: G i = ( 1 n E ∑ nE j=1 X ij ) -X (2) E j = ( 1 n G ∑ nG i=1 X ij ) -X (3) where n E is the number of environments and n G is the number of genotypes. GEij was calculated by rearranging Eq. (  1 ) and substituting the other terms. Simulated values of FIPARa, RUEa and ADM were compared with observed values, as were G, E and GxE interaction effects on these. Model performance was quantified in terms of the slope and intercept of the linear regression between simulated and observed values, and the coefficient of determination (R 2 ). Differences in observed ADM between Gs and Es were tested for significance by analysis of variance followed by post hoc pairwise comparisons using the Fisher 'least significant difference' (LSD), calculated using the R Agricolae package (de Mendiburu, 2019). It was not possible to calculate LSD values for RUEa and FIPAR as these were derived from treatment means. 
 Simulations were conducted with three models: DSSAT-Canegro v4.5_C2.2 ("DC"), Mosicas (2017 version, "MS"); and APSIM-Sugar v7.10 ("AS"). Location and management-related model inputs for the simulations are listed in Table  2 . Soil descriptions are shown in Table  S2  in the Supplementary Online Material. The DSSAT v4.6.1 'SBuild' software  The soil at Belle Glade is mostly organic material and the standard pedotransfer functions for estimation of hydraulic characteristics do not apply. We used a predefined soil released with DSSAT v4.5 ('Lauderhill muck', code BGIGEP2013, described as a hyperthermic Lithic Haplosaprist), and modified the thicknesses of the deepest two layers so that the soil profile depth matched the profile depth reported by the data cooperator at that site (179 cm). Rather than extending the bottom layer to depth, the second-deepest was extended, as the deepest layer was (originally) defined to be near-impermeable. The soil description reported in  The MS model was run with the 'MOSICASCERESb' water balance option enabled. Penman-Monteith short grass reference evapotranspiration (ETo, mm/day) was calculated with the R 'Evapotranspiration' library  Recorded irrigation applications were used for simulations at La Mare, Pongola and Chiredzi. Irrigation application data were not recorded for the Belle Glade experiments, as irrigation is undertaken by adjusting water table depth at that site. For the Belle Glade experiments only, models were set up to apply enough water to avoid water stress. 
 
 The basic approach was to calibrate models for the following processes, in order (based on the sequence of calculations during each simulated day in the models): duration of germination, canopy development (including leaf and tiller appearance where applicable), biomass accumulation, biomass partitioning (including timing of onset of stalk growth). The data used for calibrating the model were all from the international GxE trial described by  3 , data are shown in Table  S3  in the Supplementary Online Material), termed hereafter in this text as 'phenotypic parameters'. These phenotypic parameter values describe observations, but are not model inputs themselves. The term 'trait parameter', by contrast, refers to a crop model trait input parameter, and the names of these are italicised in the text. Trait parameter values were determined according to a hierarchy of approaches: 1 'A priori' method: in advance of running any crop models, from the Gmeans (for unstressed experiments only, unless otherwise stated) of the phenotypic parameter values. In some cases, mathematical transformation of the phenotypic parameters was necessary to match specific model input parameter definitions. This approach was preferred and used wherever phenotypic parameter definition were sufficiently similar to model trait parameter definitions. 2 'Interactive' method: via trial and error, in two steps: 1), by changing trait parameter values, running simulations, and then assessing model accuracy by comparing simulated and observed values of relevant variables, in order to simulate E effects as accurately as possible; then 2) by imposing relative G values of related observed phenotypic parameters in order to capture G differences. 3 'Model default' method: where observations were not available to support either a priori or interactive methods, default (standard) model trait parameter values were used for each model (NCo376 for DSSAT-Canegro, R570 for Mosicas and Q117 for APSIM-Sugar). Equivalent parameter values were set for the radiation extinction coefficient (all models), maximum number of green leaves (DC and AS), and the short grass reference evapotranspiration multiplier (DC and MS), to minimise confounding. Input parameter values determined using the a priori approach were calculated and input into the models before attempting interactive calibration of remaining parameters. For interactive calibration, for DC and MS (models with no dynamic feedback between biomass accumulation and leaf area development) the order in which trait parameter values were determined followed the order of daily rate calculations in which these trait parameters are used within the models. For the AS model, where biomass accumulation feeds back on leaf area development, every combination of model trait parameter values was assessed in parallel, avoiding feed-forward effects arising from sequential interactive calibration. For trait parameters determined via interactive calibration, observed G differences for phenotypic parameters RUEmax (maximum apparent radiation use efficiency across biomass sampling periods, g/MJ), TT_csFi50 and STKPF (fraction of daily above-ground dry biomass increments allocated to stalks), were imposed on initial calibrated values of the relevant model trait parameters. In the explanations below, names for initial parameter values are appended with an apostrophe (e.g. ruemax' as the intermediate value name for ruemax) to indicate their intermediate nature. The basic form of this 'imposition' of G effects follows Eq. (  4 ): TP i = TP' * PP i PP (4) where TP i is a model trait input parameter value, TP' is the average of intermediate interactively-determined trait input parameter values for all Gs, PP i is the related phenotypic parameter value for genotype i, and PP is the average of the phenotypic parameter values for all three Gs. The same trait parameter values were used for plant and ratoon crops except for two germination-related input parameters: taldebtt (thermal time duration for germination, • Cd) for MS and shoot_lag (thermal time duration from crop start to start of linear coleoptile, • Cd) for AS. The input parameter value derivations are summarized in Table  3 . 
 The a priori method was used to estimate DC trait parameter values for timing of germination, leaf appearance and start of stalk growth, the duration of tillering, final stalk population and biomass partitioning. Interactive calibration for the DC model was performed in a specific order based on the sequence of calculations performed in the model each day. For each trait parameter in the sequence, default (NCo376) values were used for as-yet uncalibrated trait parameters. The calibration sequence was as follows:     1 TAR0 ′ (maximum unstressed tiller appearance rate per primary shoot, shoots/shoot/ • Cd, before imposition of G differences): the DC model calculates the timing of secondary shoot emergence using temperature and FIPAR > 70 % (a dynamic feedback mechanism linking tillering with leaf-related trait parameters and growing conditions via radiation interception). TAR0 ′ was determined by minimising differences between simulated and observed shoot population for the first 2 months of each season (FIPAR generally less than 70 %), minimising the potentially confounding effects of dynamic feedback. 2 LER0 (maximum unstressed leaf elongation rate, cm/ • Cd) was calibrated by minimising differences in GLAI, over the first 3-4 months of each cropping season. The age cutoff was to ensure that leaf number had not yet reached the point where leaf length is limited by the maximum leaf area size parameter MXLEAFAREA (cm 2 ), which would have confounded the calibration. 3 MXLEAFAREA was then calibrated by minimising differences between simulated and observed GLAI, focussing on observations from 6 months age onward. 4 TAR0: after calibrating TAR0 ′ , LER0 and MXLFAREA for all three Gs, the final values of TAR0 for each G were determined by imposing relative differences in observed TT_csFI50 on the average (of the three Gs) TAR0 ′ values, using Eq. (  4 ). 5 MAXPARCE' (defined as gross assimilate produced per unit PAR intercepted for a young healthy crop growing under ideal temperature and water status conditions, g/MJ, before imposition of G differences) was determined by minimising differences between simulated and observed ADM accumulation. 6 MAXPARCE: after calibrating MAXPARCE' for all three Gs, relative differences in RUEmax (a phenotypic parameter from  4 ) to determine per-G MAXPARCE values. 
 For the MS model, the a priori method was used to determine values for trait parameters controlling germination timing, canopy development (laicroi', green leaf expansion rate per unit thermal time, m 2 /m 2 / • Cd) and biomass partitioning. Interactive calibration was conducted for trait parameters in the following sequence: 1 laicroi was determined by revising the initial values of laicroi' to minimise differences between simulated and observed TT_csFi50. 2 ruemax' (maximum photosynthetically-active radiation use efficiency, defined as growth respiration-net foot_0  assimilate produced per unit PAR intercepted for a young healthy crop growing under ideal temperature and water status conditions, g/MJ, before imposition of G differences) was calculated by minimising differences between simulated and observed ADM. 3 ruemax values were determined after other trait parameter values had been calculated and input into the models, for all Gs. G differences in the phenotypic parameter RUEmax were imposed on ruemax', following Eq (4), to determine ruemax values per G. Where the use of default values was necessary, standard values for ratoon crops were used for both P and R1 crops, as we had more confidence in these. 
 The a priori calibration approach was used to calculate trait 3 TT9: cumulative thermal time from crop start calculated using a base temperature of 9 • C, with optimal and upper temperatures are specified in  Trait parameter tillerf_leaf_size (the 'tillering factor', a multiplier intended to emulate the effect of tillering on green leaf area index (GLAI, m 2 /m 2 )) and leaf_size (maximum unstressed leaf area per leaf, cm 2 ) were considered to be mutually compensating, so tillerf_leaf_size was set to default (Q117) values and only leaf_size was changed in the calibrations. Following this, the leaf_size parameter should be interpreted as a G index of canopy size (including tillering effects) rather than leaf size per se. Note that we assumed the same (Q117 plant crop) tillerf_leaf_size values for P and R1 crops, as we attributed faster shoot population growth in R1 crops to greater primary shoot population via the initial seed density simulation trait parameter. The AS model restricts canopy expansion to carbohydrate availability, requiring simultaneous calibration of input parameters for leaf size, biomass accumulation and biomass partitioning, respectively: leaf_size, rue and cane_fraction (see Table  3  for definitions). For each G, the AS model was run for all Es, for numerous combinations of parameter values ranging around those for the standard (cultivar Q117). Every combination of parameter sets from the three Gs was then determined and the absolute average prediction error (APE, defined as the average difference between observed and simulated values) for ADM was calculated across Gs. Input parameter set combinations that had the same G ranking for rue and cane_fraction respectively as that of related phenotypic parameters RUEmax and STKPF  Finally, observed G differences in RUEmax were then imposed on rue' (using Eq (4)). 
 The key research question we set out to answer was: can models predict G and GxE interaction effects on ADM accumulation and its components? The models were forced, via calibration, with knowledge of observed G and E effects on canopy development-and biomass accumulation phenotypic data. This section describes the evaluation of the calibrated models. Models were evaluated with the same dataset used for calibration. This might overestimate overall model performance, but ensures that G and E effects on crop processes are simulated as accurately as possible, permitting meaningful evaluation of GxE interaction effects. Models were assessed in two broad ways: 1 A 'traditional' model assessment, where time-series observations were statistically compared with corresponding simulated values, done primarily to establish a baseline indication of calibration quality, compatible and comparable with published calibration/ validation statistics. 2 Analysis of variance to assess models' abilities to predict G, E, and GxE interaction effects of key variables. Model accuracy was measured with the following statistical parameters that quantified the accuracy of simulated time series values of green leaf area index (GLAI, m 2 /m 2 ), fractional interception (FIPAR, %) of PAR, ADM and stalk dry mass (SDM, t/ha): the slope and intercept of the linear regression between simulated and observed values, R 2 ; root mean squared error (RMSE, defined as the square root of the mean squared difference between simulated and observed values); and APE. Model performance improvements by calibrated cultivars over standard model calibrations were assessed by comparing N41 observations with simulations run using standard model trait parameter sets (representing cultivar NCo376 for DC, R570 for MS and Q117 for AS; N41 observations were chosen as none of the models had been developed/calibrated with this cultivar). 
 
 Environmental conditions varied by E and growth phase (Table  4 ). Water stress (due to irrigation supply issues) was found to be too severe at Chiredzi P, La Mare P and Pongola R1, and these Es were excluded from analysis other than that for germination. Simulations showed that MS and AS predicted more severe water stress than DC at Chiredzi R1, La Mare R1 and Pongola P. Pongola P revealed end-ofseason water stress, attributed to deliberate drying-off, standard practice for enhancing sucrose content prior to harvest. Belle Glade P and R1, Chiredzi R1 and Pongola P started and ended  
 Model trait parameter values following calibration are listed in Table  5 . 
 The 'traditional' evaluation (Table  6 ) reveals similar performance between the models. Predictions of GLAI were relatively poor, but did not greatly reduce FiPAR and ADM prediction performance. MS, DC and AS predicted ADM with RMSEs of 6.45, 6.81 and 8.63 t/ha. Calibration considerably improved most model performance statistics compared to standard cultivars (Table  6 ), particularly for ADM and SDM. Figs. 1-3show simulated (after calibration) and observed FiPAR, ADM and SDM time series values, for all three models. The similarity in model performance is clear. FiPAR predictions were generally similar between the models, except at La Mare R1 where FiPAR was greatly underestimated by AS, and FiPAR at Pongola shows a greater separation between the models compared to other Es and variables. Statistical parameters generally indicate a high degree of accuracyequivalent to the best published sugarcane model performance (as reported in  Statistics for simulated ADM yields at harvest, per G, are summarized in Table  7 . The R 2 values for simulated vs observed ADM at harvest were weak for DC and MS (R 2 ≈ 0.40) and stronger for AS (R 2 ≈ 0.67). 
 
 Crops grown at La Mare R1 showed highest observed FIPARa due to rapid canopy development in response to very warm conditions at crop start (Fig.  4 , and Table  S4  in the Supplementary Online Material). By contrast, Belle Glade P had the lowest FIPARa, due to relatively cool conditions at the start of the season. The DC model correctly predicted the highest and lowest FIPARa Es, while MS correctly predicted the E with the highest FIPARa. Analysis (Fig.  4 ) revealed that E effects were captured well by DC and MS, and poorly by AS. CP88-1762 showed higher FIPARa than N41 and R570 at all Es except La Mare R1 (indicating a GxE interaction effect). N41 and R570 had similar FIPARa for all Es except Belle Glade R1, where N41 lodged more severely than R570. G effects were shown to be accurately captured by all three models (Fig.  4 ). DC correctly predicted that CP88-1762 was the highest-ranking G for FIPARa in three Es, but incorrectly predicted N41 (instead of R570) as the highest-ranked G at La Mare R1. The MS model correctly predicted CP88-1762 as the highest-ranked G in three Es, except for La Mare R1 where R570 was incorrectly ranked lowest instead of highest. AS ranked CP88-1762 highest at all Es (with N41 in three Es), and was also unable to predict R570 as the highest-ranking G for FIPARa at La Mare R1. Although the DC and MS models simulated G and E effects accurately, the analysis (Fig.  4 ) revealed that none of the models was able to simulate accurately the observed GxE interaction effects on canopy development. 
 Observed RUEa (Fig.  5 , and Table  S5  in the Supplementary Online Material) was highest at Belle Glade P followed by La Mare R1, Pongola P and lastly Belle Glade R1, where lodging occurred. E variation in RUEa (the difference between maximum and minimum values, expressed as a percentage of the grand mean) was greatly underestimated by the models (4-9 % compared to 16-20 %). The Es with highest-and lowest-RUEa were not predicted correctly by any of the models. The AS model captured E differences in RUEa most accurately, but the relationship between observed and simulated RUEa values was still rather weak (R 2 = 0.35, Fig.  5 ). The analysis shown in Fig.  5  confirms that E effects on RUEa were poorly predicted by all models. Variation in observed RUEa between Gs was ≈ 10-20 %. RUEa was highest for CP88-1762 at Belle Glade P, R570 at La Mare R1, and N41 at Pongola P. The low observed value for N41 at Belle Glade R1 was attributed to particularly severe, early lodging. G variation in simulated RUEa was much lower than observed for DC (7-10 %), MS (2-4%) and AS (2-3 %). All models predicted highest RUEa for CP88-1762 in all Es, although MS and AS in some cases predicted R570 RUEa values very similar to those of CP88-1762). Simulated G rankings per E in RUEa (Table  S5  of Supplementary Online Material) matched RUEo trait parameter values (Table  5 ). There were generally poor correlations (R 2 = 0.03, 0.02 and 0.24 for DC, MS and AS respectively) between observed and simulated RUEa per G and E. DC and AS greatly over-estimated the G effects for CP88-1762, while MS appeared to capture the G effects on RUEa reasonably well. RUEa GxE interaction effects (Fig.  5 ) were found to be poorly predicted by all models. 
 The range in observed E mean ADM was 26 t/ha (53 % of the grand mean) with La Mare R1 and Pongola P showing the highest and lowest values respectively (Fig.  6 , and Table  S6  in Supplementary Online Material). This is ascribed to a combination of: (1) 20 % greater fractional radiation interception (Fig.  4 ; Table  S5 , Supplementary Online Material), attributed to higher temperatures primarily during germination and tillering (Table  4 ); (2) 20 % higher SRAD; and (3) 16 % higher RUEa (Fig.  4 ;Table  S5 , Supplementary Online Material). Models under-predicted the observed range of E variation, with DC = 29 %, MS = 38 % and AS = 20 %. Nevertheless, all three models correctly predicted the highest-yielding E, and MS and AS also correctly predicted the lowest-yielding E. AS stands out as having correctly predicted the E-mean ADM rankings for the three Es that were significantly different (Belle Glade P, La Mare R1 and Pongola P), and E effects on ADM yield (Fig.  6 ) were predicted most accurately by this model. Severe lodging was recorded at Belle Glade R1, and Pongola P crops experienced water stress for several weeks before final harvest due to irrigation being withheld. These may have had differential G impacts and so confound analysis of GxE influences on ADM. FIPAR was not recorded at Chiredzi R1. Consequently, the strongest comparison that can be made is Belle Glade P and La Mare R1. CP88-1762 produced the highest ADM yield at Belle Glade P, ascribed to high FIPARa (Fig.  4 ; Table  S4 , Supplementary Online Material) and high RUEa (Fig.  5 ; Table  S5 , Supplementary Online Material) compared to other Gs. At La Mare R1, however, CP88-1762 produced the lowest yield. This change in G ranking between the two Es matches the change in G rankings of FIPARa and RUEa. G effects on ADM yield appear to be reasonably well-predicted by the models. It should however be noted that although observed E and GxE interaction effects were statistically significant (p < 0.001 and p < 0.01 respectively), observed G effects were not  The DC model predicted highest ADM yields for CP88-1762 at every E (Table  S6  in Supplementary Online Material). DC predicted very similar ADM values for R570 and N41 at all Es. The AS model predicted CP88-1762 as the top-yielding G at all Es. All models therefore correctly predicted the top-yielding G (CP88-1762) at Belle Glade, and failed to predict the top-yielding G (R570) at La Mare R1. The prediction of GxE interaction effects in ADM was poor by all models, with DC faring least poorly. The AS model E effects more accurately than DC, and despite its poorer GxE interaction effects predictions, its predictions of final ADM were more accurate overall than DC (and MS). 
 Model evaluation statistics for non-stressed experiments, for calibrated and uncalibrated models. 'Sign.' refers to the statistical significance of the R 2 statistic: *** (P < 0.001), ** (P < 0.01), * (P < 0.05). "Calibrated" used calibrated cultivars and compared with corresponding simulated and observed values; "Default" refers to model default parameters (i.e. standard cultivars: NCo376 for DSSAT-Canegro, R570 for Mosicas and Q117 for APSIM-Sugar), where simulated values were compared with N41 observations.   
 
 The 'a priori' calibration approach, of deriving model trait parameter values directly from low-level phenotypic observations, may be more appropriate than interactive calibration (including automatic optimisation, particularly against high level phenotypic observations, e.g. final stalk yield) for model-assisted breeding applications that demand biological realism in simulated plant processes  The order in which trait parameters are determined using the interactive calibration approach can, however, be important, because of feed forward and feedback effects. This was managed in this study by matching the calibration sequence with the order in which the trait parameters are used in the models, at least for the DC and MS models which have few internal feedbacks between processes and clear feedforward effects. For the AS model it was necessary to follow a 'brute force' approach, by which every permutation of values for three model trait parameters was tested in parallel, to avoid impacts of sequential calibration and thereby ensuring repeatability. Computationally, this was manageable for the limited number of parameters and experiments; for larger datasets this might not be practical. The imposition of observed G differences on interactivelydetermined model parameterseffectively using prior knowledge of G effects to augment automated parameter estimationappears to be reasonably robust and more appropriate than simply accepting optimised parameter values. Model calibration and validation are generally based on comparisons of equivalent directly-observed values such as leaf area index, leaf and shoot numbers, yield and biomass partitioning ratios and their simulated equivalents. Less commonly, a model rate or state variable might be compared with a data variable computed from direct observationse.g. a soil water deficit factor regulating photosynthesis and relative carbon exchange rates between irrigated and dry treatments  1 . Simulated (using three models, DSSAT-Canegro, Mosicas and APSIM-Sugar) and observed (black filled circles) fractional interception of photosyntheticallyactive radiation (FiPAR, %), above-ground dry biomass (ADM, t/ha) and stalk dry mass (SDM, t/ha), for cultivar N41. Fig.  2 . Simulated (using three models, DSSAT-Canegro, Mosicas and APSIM-Sugar) and observed (black filled circles) fractional interception of photosyntheticallyactive radiation (FiPAR, %), above-ground dry biomass (ADM, t/ha) and stalk dry mass (SDM, t/ha), for cultivar R570. be correct, and so these can serve as "checks and balances" for the simulation of the formation of final yield. It is recommended that similar approaches are followed in future multi-G simulation studies. It was not clear that calibration would have had much impact on model performance, particularly under well-watered conditions, given the small performance improvements to calibration reported (for example) by  6 ) increased confidence in the credibility of the models for capturing genotypic effects, and justified further analysis of these effects. This also permitted critical assessment of standard model parameter values. Some of the parameter values calibrated deviated substantially from default values, and it was not possible to conduct an independent validation of these with the available data. While many of these new values should be used with caution, some can be used with more confidence:  
 Canopy development differences between Es were associated with temperature differences. The DC and MS models were able to differentiate FIPARa reasonably well between Es. CP88-1762 showed quicker canopy development and higher FIPARa than R570 for three Es with relatively low temperatures (Belle Glade P and R1, Pongola P) during the pre-stalk growth phase (Table  4 ). In contrast, R570 had higher FIPARa than CP88-1762 at La Mare R1 where temperature during this phase was much higher (27.3 compared to 19.4, 20.1 and 21.4 • C). This seems a clear indication that CP88-1762 is better adapted to low temperatures than R570. Despite the poor prediction of GxE interaction effects, the DC and MS models simulated FIPARa reasonably accurately overall (simulated vs observed linear regression slope = 0.73 (DC) and 1.14 (MS), R 2 ≈ 0.70 (both)). 
 RUEa was, on average, 2.15 g/MJ, about 25 % lower than the equivalent RUEa values reported by  3 . Simulated (using three models, DSSAT-Canegro, Mosicas and APSIM-Sugar) and observed (black filled circles) fractional interception of photosyntheticallyactive radiation (FiPAR, %), above-ground dry biomass (ADM, t/ha) and stalk dry mass (SDM, t/ha), for cultivar CP88-1762.   4 ), this may be evidence for RUE temperature sensitivity in the 20-25 • C range.  None of the models were able accurately to predict G rankings in RUEa per E, nor were any able to predict the GxE interaction effects accurately.  2019 ) found evidence for small but significant G differences in RUEmax. G-specific values for RUEo model trait parameters have been reported by  
 It is recommended that canopy development algorithms be refined for better support of in silico crop improvement research. The GxE interaction effect on FIPARa appears to strongly determine ADM yields (r = 0.57, p < 0.05), indicating that improving models' abilities to predict GxE differences in FIPARa will also improve their predictions of GxE interactions in ADM. No clear benefits to the detailed DC model canopy were noted. This may have been due to limitations in the data. The evidence from this study suggests that model performance gains for predicting yield GxE interactions in fully-irrigated sugarcane crops can be made, even using a simple model of canopy development (e.g. in the MS model), by using G-specific base temperatures for canopy development (and perhaps photosynthesis as well). The value of a canopy model that couples leaf area development with biomass availability (as in the AS model) was not clearly demonstrated here. Deeper exploration of GxE interaction mechanisms may however require a rigorous examination of carbon supply and demand and assessment (or addition) of these linkages in crop models. Source-sink dynamics are unavoidable in nature, so including these mechanisms in the models adds to their biological realism, and likely holds potential both increasing simulation accuracy in general, but also specifically for improving definitions and values of G trait parameters and predictions of GxE interaction effects. Solar radiation intensity was identified in previous work  Resolving the uncertainties around G and E effects on RUE requires data recorded with great precision, as this analysis was hampered by data shortcomingswater stress, lodging, inadequate FIPAR measurements, and large sampling error in ADM yields. Experimental protocols should ensure that water, nutrition and biotic stresses are minimised and careful records should be kept of irrigation applications and lodging events; FIPAR should be measured at frequent thermal time intervals throughout the cropping season, and should immediately precede destructive sampling events; time-series sampling of biomass is also required, and should be done with care to reduce sampling errors; and RUEmax should be calculated using biomass samples taken between three and nine months' age. In this work we assumed that the primary drivers of GxE interaction effects would be differential responses to temperature and radiation. It is however possible that other factors such as soil biotic factors could have played a role. Limitations in this dataset could be addressed with followup experimentation with greater control over soil biotic factors and improved experimental protocols. However, it is recommended that existing historical growth analysis datasets are used for future model development and testing. The AS and DC models require separate execution environments for comparing the effects of 'species' parameters (those that are not Gspecific), potentially adding complication to simulation workflows. Models should provide easily-defined G trait parameters for processspecific base temperatures and RUEo, for practical application in model-assisted breeding. 
 Three sugarcane models (DSSAT-Canegro, Mosicas and APSIM-Sugar) were calibrated using knowledge of G effects via phenotypic parameters published in a previous study. All three models reported favourable (and roughly equivalent) calibration statistics. Observed genotype (G) by environment (E) differences in final harvest above-ground dry mass (ADM) yields were explained in terms of differences in seasonal average fractional photosynthetically-active radiation interception (FIPARa) and average seasonal radiation use efficiency (RUEa). While the models showed some skill in predicting G and E effects on ADM yield, none of the models reliably predicted ADM GxE interaction effects. All models greatly under-estimated variation in RUEa and ADM. Cultivar CP88-1762 developed canopy cover faster, intercepted more radiation and out-yielded, R570 and N41 in Es with cool earlyseason conditions (Belle Glade and Pongola), while R570 outperformed the other Gs in the warm early season E (La Mare). This dynamic was not adequately captured by any of the models; although G and E effects on radiation interception were reasonably well-simulated, the models failed to predict the GxE interaction effects accurately. Models simulated RUEa G differences accurately overall for the 3-6 and 6-9 month biomass sampling periods, but not for seasonal RUEa. Data shortcomings prevented us from making strong conclusions regarding E or GxE interaction effects in RUEa, although the evidence indicates that models' abilities are weak in this regard. Overall, the models failed to predict GxE interaction effects (for FIPARa, RUEa and ADM) on these Gs and Es accurately. The hypothesis, that using phenotypic data to determine model input trait parameters would result in accurate prediction of G and GxE interaction effects, was shown not to be true for these models and the dataset considered. The key recommendations from this study are that sugarcane models must accommodate G-specific base temperature model inputs for germination and canopy development processes, and should include realistic linkages between carbon availability and canopy growth; these are anticipated to result in improved simulation of GxE interaction effects on growth and yield.  
 
 On behalf of my co-authors and myself, I hereby confirm that there are no conflicts of interest pertaining to the submission of our manuscript entitled "Evaluating process-based sugarcane models for simulating GxE effects observed in a global dataset". participating organisations. We are also grateful for the comments from two anonymous reviewers, whose insights resulted in considerable improvements to this paper. Assimilate produced after losses to growth respiration, but before losses to maintenance respiration. 
			 -Standard values are provided by model developers for standard cultivar.
This article presents the result of a collaborative effort by a multidisciplinary team of computer scientists, biostatisticians, agronomists, weed experts and crop modelers who have been confronted with data and metadata management issues in agroecological research on sugarcane. Relational databases are widely used in agriculture to manage field experimental data as well as pest and weed management information  
 Unlike a traditional database that is modeled as a function of the problem, ECOFI database can manage all experimental data collected through agroecological studies that take account of many factors varying in time and space. The database consists of 23 tables linked to each other (Figure  1 ). The description of the different tables is presented in Table  1  to facilitate data access.  
 The ECOFI database describes 63 trials carried out in 11 countries: Reunion Island (28), Guadeloupe (15), Brazil (4), Morocco (3), Australia (2), Zimbabwe (2), USA (2), South Africa (2), Ecuador (1), Senegal (1) and Mauritius (1). Each trial is associated with a localized site (latitude, longitude and altitude), country and project. The different treatments of each trial are defined in the "Plot" table and the crop cycle is defined in "Plotcycle" in case of multiple-year and multiple-variety trials. 
 Weather and soil data are described in each site. The weather data are given at a daily time step or averaged every 10 days. Available meteorological data are: minimum, mean and maximum temperature; minimum, mean and maximum relative humidity; total and maximum wind speed; global radiation; potential evapotranspiration (Penman-Monteith); rainfall. In some case, some meteorological data are missing when not measured (in particular for relative humidity). The database made it possible to associate two set of rainfall data for a specific site (one in "Wdat" and the other in "Raindat"). The variable units are described in "Tables". Soil data are described in "Genesoil" and "Soillayer" (defining multiplied soil layers) and limited to variables used for the soil water balance assessment: soil water capacity, field capacity, wilting point, saturation, bulk density.  
 
 Management information of each trial is detailed in "Plot" (planted area of each plot, number of buds and row spacing), "Plotcycle" (crop cycle: plant or ratoon crops, irrigation management) and "Varcycle" (planted variety, starting and ending dates of the cycle). If not rainfed, the irrigation management are detailed in "Irrdata" and "Irrigation" where daily water amount at specific dates is indicated as well as the efficiency of the irrigation (taking into account water loss). In case the irricode is "NC", it means that the crop is irrigated but that the irrigation amount and frequency is not available. Two types of irrigation were used in the different trials (sprinkler or drip irrigation). In total, 60 different varieties were used in the different trials (41 sugarcane and 19 energy cane). Nevertheless, the number of crop cycle for each variety is heterogeneous, with a maximum of 95 crop cycle for the R570 variety. 
 The ECOFI database provides measurements in the different trials at various levels: plot (e.g. soil water content and aboveground dry matter), plant (e.g. aboveground fresh matter per plant), stem (e.g. stem sugar content), leaf (e.g. fresh matter of leaves) or limb level (e.g. width of leaf blades). All measured plant, soil and weather variables are described in the "Variables" table with their respective unit, type and description. 
 In the event that users would like to add observations, the new trial must be created in "Trial" with its location in the table "Site". The elementary plots within the trial are described in "plot" with potentially different planting densities and row spacing. Finally, "Plotcycle" and "Varcycle" describe the cane cycle and the variety planted. Observations can then be added to "Obsplant" and "Obssoil" after having specifying the new definitions in the metadata table "Variables", if required. The observed variables are standardized as much as possible using terminology from controlled vocabulary in order to make the data interoperable. If the information is available, the user can also associate soil and climate data with the new dataset. 
 The ECOFI database present various uses for meta-analyze and cropping system models: data exploration, data management and model calibrations. A strong point of the database in data mining is the large number of varieties included. In Figure  2  we present an example with the growth differences in dry mass between varieties obtained from the database. ECOFI could be used to further explore the effects of the interaction between climate and variety, or with management (irrigation, row spacing...). The database has thus been used in the context of projects on sugarcane (e.g. AGMIP) or energy cane (e.g. SYPECAR). Figure  2 . Growth rates in aerial dry matter (T ha -1 d -1 ) depending on the cane variety. Growth rate was calculated from the database as the aerial dry matter divided by the number of days since the beginning of the crop cycle. Data are presented using a beanplot with median (black line), normal density (gray background) and populations (small black lines).The horizontal dashed line indicated the overall median. The number of plot cycle available for each variety with aerial dry matter is indicated. In addition, the main utility of the ECOFI database is the linked with crop models. Many operations are required to extract experimental datasets and create input files for cropping system models. Data manipulation is tedious and difficult to automate for modeling. Through simple queries, ECOFI allows the automatic creation of input files for crop models. ECOFI directly provides simulations input for the sugarcane growth model MOSICAS
A key application of crop growth simulation models is to help understand and predict the effects of, and interactions between, climate, soil and management on crop development and yield. Crop models can provide insights into the main emerging agricultural challenges such as food security, sustainability and how to cope with the possible negative effects of climate change  Sugarcane represents the main source of sugar, ethanol and material for electric energy productions in tropical and sub-tropical regions. In the energy sector, the demand for ethanol and electricity is likely to increase, as it could replace fossil fuels and reduce greenhouse gas emissions  Yield Gap (YG) analysis, based on the differences between different crop yield levels, provides a basis for identifying the main factors affecting crop yield and providing valuable informations to guide the interventions of growers, researchers, public agencies and stakeholders for increasing yields (Van den  While the use of crop models as a tool to analyze temporal and spatial variation of yield gaps appears to be straightforward, relatively few examples of this type of application can be found in literature for sugarcane. Sugarcane yield gap studies have been broadly classified into two types. Some aim to assess the temporal evolution of YG to explain how technological improvements (e.g. cultivars, cane management) have decreased the YG  Reunion island (-21.15 • / 55.50 • ) is a particularly suitable environment for assessing the impacts of extreme climatic events variability on sugarcane yield gaps. Around 23 000 ha are cultivated with sugarcane in Reunion Island, representing about 58% of total agricultural areas  Considering that yield gap studies are of high importance for guiding strategic actions and improve crop yields predictions under climate change, in particular for tropical islands with such diverse environmental conditions and extreme events, the objectives of this study were: i) to assess the magnitude of sugarcane yield gaps due to water deficit and crop management in Reunion Island over the last 20 years; ii) to assess the impacts of climate variability on sugarcane yield gaps in Reunion Island; iii) to assess the impacts of extreme events occurrence (rainfall, drought and heat) on sugarcane yield gaps in Reunion Island. 
 
 Reunion Island is commonly divided into five agro-climatic zones (Fig.  1 ): Beaufonds (eastern part of the island) and Bois Rouge (North-East) are predominantly rainfed; in Savanna (North-West) and Le Gol (South-West) approximately 50% of sugarcane land is irrigated; about 20% of the area is irrigated in Grand Bois (South). A detailed identification of 10,403 sugarcane fields was made over Reunion Island (Fig.  1 ), which should represent nearly all the actual sugarcane fields in 2017. The identification was performed by combining a remote-sensing approach and the use of databases from private institute (Centre Technique Interprofessionnel de la Canne et du Sucre, CTICS) or state agency (Direction de l'Alimentation, de l'Agriculture et de la Forêt, DAAF). All sugarcane fields were identified with a planted area (m 2 ), an irrigation management practice (rainfed, drip or sprinkler irrigation) and planted sugarcane cultivars. The irrigation management data in each field were collected by the CTICS institution in 2008 based on a field survey  S1 ). Between 20 and 40% of sugarcane fields were not identified with a given cultivar due to a lack of information. When we did not know the cultivar, we assumed that the planted cultivar was R570 in Savanna, Le Gol and Grand Bois, and R579 in Beaufonds and Bois Rouge. We choose these two cultivars when no data were available because these are the most-planted cultivars in these agro-climatic zones (CTICS, personal communications). 
 Based on the mean annual rainfall and altitude range maps (Fig.  1c, d ), 33 climatic areas where defined over Reunion Island. These maps were obtained through the AWARE online atlas ( 1a ). Daily interpolated climatic data in each of the 33 climatic zones were calculated for the period 1998 to 2018. These daily climatic data were used as input into the sugarcane crop model. In the following analysis of the results RF, T MEAN , ETP and R G were averaged per year in each sugarcane field. Additionally, a climatic variable integrating the sum of annual rainfall and the quantity of irrigated water was defined (RF IRR ). Then, the average annual climatic data in a given agro-climatic zone was calculated as the average field-scale data weighted by the field planted areas. 
 A detailed map of available soil water capacity -AWC (Fig.  1b ) was obtained from the AWARE online atlas. AWC over Reunion Island ranges from 30 to 200 mm with intervals of 10 mm in cane-growing areas with a few locations with AWC < 30 mm. Each sugarcane field was associated with the corresponding AWC in the map. The field-scale AWC value was used as input into the sugarcane crop model. Then, the average AWC in a given agro-climatic zone was calculated as the average field-scale data weighted by the field planted areas. The soil Nitrogen (N) mineralization was used as an indicator of soil fertility. The soil N mineralization over a crop growth cycle was estimated from the soil N stocks with the method proposed by  S1 . The soil characteristics were measured in 40 sites around Reunion Island and averaged per soil type (Table  S2 , unpublished data). Finally, an average actual mineralization rate per crop cycle (N MIN , kg ha -1 yr -1 ) in each climatic zone during the crop cycle was calculated as the average mineralization rate weighted by the proportion of soil type in sugarcane areas. 
 The MOSICAS model  
 Cane cultivars were calibrated using the ECOFI database  S3 . The link between the ECOFI database and the MOSICAS model was performed using an R script to create model input (also available in  S2 ). First the LAI dynamics was calibrated then radiation interception, radiation conversion into biomass and finally biomass partitioning. Parameter calibration was done using an internal procedure based on a simulated annealing optimization  S4 . Model performance within the calibration dataset was then evaluated using the RMSE (eq. 1), the relative mean bias error (rMBE, eq. 2) and the model efficiency (EF, eq. 3): RMSE = ̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅ 1 n ∑ n i=1 (O i -P i ) 2 √ (1) rMBE = 100 n ∑ n i=1 (P i -O i ) O (2) EF = 1 - ∑ n i=1 (O i -P i ) 2 ∑ n i=1 ( O i -O ) 2 (3) Where O i and P i are the observed and simulated values for the i th measurement, n is the number of observations and O is the mean of the observed values. 
 Actual fresh sugarcane yield (Y A ) and the average date of the middle of the milling season were obtained from sugarcane industries and CTICS each year from 1998 to 2018 in the five agro-climatic zones presented previously. To match observations, sugarcane growth was simulated using the MOSICAS model in each field from 1998 to 2018. Considering that the milling season lasts approximately 6 months in Reunion Island, we considered that each sugarcane field was harvested at five different dates (mid-season, +/-1 months and +/-2 months), and the average yield was used. As an approximation, all sugarcane fields over Reunion Island were assumed to be ratoon crops as no information on new planted sugarcane were available on the whole period. When fields were irrigated, irrigation management was assumed to be 12,000 m 3 ha -1 yr -1 (fixed application of 25 mm week -1 ), which represents common practice in Reunion, with an efficiency of 1 for drip irrigation and 0.9 for sprinkler irrigation (i.e. meaning that 10% of irrigated water is lost outside the field). Five soil layers were defined in the MOSICAS model. Each layer had identical wilting point, field capacity and saturation, to avoid differences in terms of water drainage in the model. To take into account the differences in soil available water capacity (Fig.  1b ), the soil depth was adjusted to match this value. Differences in soil depth had no impact on deep soil water uptake capacity because all simulations were ratoon crops with already deep roots at the beginning of the simulation. Two types of simulations were performed at field scale: sugarcane yield at the thermoradiative potential (Y P , not taking into account water stress) and sugarcane yield taking into account water stress (Y W ). The MOSICAS model does not take into account fertilizer stress or biotic stresses such as weed pressure. All components of cane growth were simulated but only the fresh stalk yield (equivalent to millable stalk yield) was used in this study and defined as "sugarcane yield". The average Y P and Y W in a given agro-climatic zone were calculated as the average field-scale Y P and Y W weighted by the field planted areas. Total Yield Gap (YG T , Mg ha -1 ) was defined as the difference between Y P and the actual sugarcane yield (Y A , Mg ha -1 ), averaged at the agro-climatic zone scale. Water-limited yield gap (YG W ) was defined as the difference between Y P and Y W . YG caused by crop management and hazards (YG M ) was defined as the difference between Y W and Y A . Finally, the maximum Y A achieved in each agro-climatic zone was derived from the maximum annual Y A observed from 1998 to 2918. Then, the actual yield loss was defined in each zone and each year as the difference between the maximum Y A and the Y A from the current year. 
 Based on daily climatic data, Extreme Climatic Index (ECI) parameters were defined at the agro-climatic zone scale: extreme rainfall (ECI RF ), extreme temperature (ECI TMAX ) and extreme drought (ECI DRY ) indices. For rainfall, ECI RF was defined in this study at the field scale as the number of days with RF higher than a threshold (defining extreme daily rainfall events) between two harvest dates. The rainfall threshold was assessed as the 97.5% percentile of measurements from 1998 to 2018 across space. Using the same method, ECI TMAX was defined as the number of daily events with T MAX higher than the 97.5% quantile. Considering ECI DRY , the index was defined as the number of months during a crop cycle with monthly rainfall lower than the 2.5% percentile of monthly measurements from the same period. Finally, average ECI RF , ECI TMAX and ECI DRY per agro-climatic zone were then calculated as the average field scale ECI weighted by the field area. 
 The whole dataset is accessible via the CIRAD dataverse  
 
 Calibration led to model efficiencies of 0.28 for leaf area index (LAI), 0.79 for aboveground dry mass (DM), 0.81 for stalk fresh mass (FM), 0.88 for stalk DM (Fig.  2 ) and 0.97 for fiPAR (Fig.  S3 ). rMBE was 17.8% for LAI but was low for aboveground and stalk biomasses (-5 to 0.9%, Fig.  2 ). When comparing only values at harvest, stalk FM had a RMSE of 20.3 Mg ha -1 and a rMBE of 6.2 %. Stalk FM rMBE was -0.4%, -12.9% and -5.5% for R570, R579 and R585 respectively, when considering all values; and 7.0%, 2.5% and 2.5% when considering only values at harvest. 
 Sugarcane areas were distributed at 27.0, 19.8, 17.0, 22.9 and 13.3% between the East, North-East, South, South-West and North-West agroclimatic zones, respectively. In the East and North-East zones, the majority of sugarcane was located in low altitude (<200 m, Table  1 ) while a higher proportion of sugarcane area in high altitude (> 400 m) was observed in the three other zones. Interpolated mean temperature (T MEAN ) at a given altitude was similar among agro-climatic zones with 23.4, 21.9, 19.6 and 11.3 • C in average in altitudes <200 m, 200-400 m, 400-800 m and > 800 m, respectively (Table  1 ). On the contrary, interpolated annual rainfalls were contrasted depending on agroclimatic zone, with lower rainfall in the West Coast than the East Coast. Considering climatic data weighted by sugarcane area in each agro-climatic zone (Fig.  3b, c ), the sugarcane areas in the North-West zone were characterized by a low average daily temperature (20.4 • C, Fig.  3b ) and low annual rainfall (614 mm yr -1 , Fig.  3c ). The East and North-East zones were the warmest (22.3 • C) and wettest areas (1801 mm yr -1 ). Considering soil variability, the South-West area had a statistically higher N MIN (123 kg N ha -1 yr -1 ) than the other areas which were similar with 112 kgN -1 ha yr -1 in average (Table  1 ). 
 Actual sugarcane yield (Y A ) was similar among agro-climatic zones (74 Mg ha -1 in average) except for the North-West zone (57 Mg ha -1 in average, Fig.  3a ). Nevertheless, actual sugarcane yield showed an annual variability. The coefficient of variation due to annual variability was similar among agro-climatic zones and varied from 8 % to 11 %. Moreover, for a given zone the difference between the highest-and lowest-yielding years varied between 20 Mg ha -1 (North-West) and 31 Mg ha -1 (East). On average, the simulated potential (Y P ) and water-limited (Y W ) yields at the agro-climatic zone scale were 170 (+/-19) and 106 (+/-33) Mg ha -1 , leading to a total yield gap (YG T , i.e. difference between Y P and Y A ) of 96 Mg ha -1 (Fig.  3d ). This yield gap resulted from a 64 Mg ha -1 water limited yield gap (YG W , difference between Y P and Y W ) and from a 32 Mg ha -1 yield gap due to management and hazards (YG M , i.e. difference between Y W and Y A ), on average. While Y P showed little annual variation, with a coefficient of variation ranging from 2 to 3 % depending on the agro-climatic zone, Y W presented a higher coefficient of variation over years, ranging from 13 % (North-East) to 26 % (North-West, Fig.  S4 ). 
 The PCA summarized the average T MEAN , ETP, R G , RF IRR , AWC and N MIN per year and agro-climatic zones into two climatic indexes (CI1 and CI2, Fig.  4a ). These indexes capture both soil-climatic variability across agro-climatic zones and time. The first component (CI1, 55.9% of the explained variance) was mainly determined by T MEAN , R G , ETP and AWC. The N MIN and annual water input (rainfall + irrigation, RF IRR ) contributed mainly to the second component (CI2, 23.9% of the explained variance). Management yield gap (YG M ) was positively correlated with CI1 value (ρ SPEAR = 0.43, p < 10 -4 ), with YG M reaching around 88 Mg ha -1 in warm and high ETP environments (Fig.  4b ). In colder environments (i.e. low values of CI1), YG M was relatively constant and around 30 Mg ha -1 . On the contrary, yield gap due to water stress (YG W ) was not correlated to CI1 (p = 0.26). Consequently, total yield gap (YG T ) showed variations like YG M with values varying from 90 to 120 Mg ha -1 in cold and warm environments, respectively. YG M was also positively correlated (ρ SPEAR = 0.31, p = 0.002) with CI2 (Fig.  4c ). YG M reached 64 Mg ha -1 for the years and zones with the highest N MIN and rainfalls and decreased down to 40 Mg ha -1 under low N MIN and rainfall. By opposition, YG W was negatively correlated with CI2 (ρ SPEAR = -0.47, p < 10 -6 ). As a consequence, YG T was not correlated with CI2. 
 Based on the daily and monthly climatic events from 1998 to 2018 in Reunion island, a threshold for extreme event occurrence was defined for extreme rainfall (daily rainfall, RF DAY > 28.8 mm d -1 , Fig.  5a ), extreme drought (monthly rainfall, RF MONTH < 1.6 mm month -1 , Fig.  5b ) and extreme heat (maximum daily temperature, T MAX > 31.7 • C, Fig.  5c ). The maximum daily rainfall observed during the interpolated climate time-series (909 mm d -1 ) was observed in 2002 during the Dina cyclone in the South Coast. Extreme events occurrence varied among agro-climatic zones (Fig.  5 ). ECI RF was higher in average in the East and South coasts of Reunion Island, with 13 occurrence per sugarcane cycle, than in the West Coast with 4 occurrences per sugarcane cycle (Fig.  5d ). The highest ECI RF reached 23 occurrence per cycle in the East coast. In contrast, ECI DRY was higher in the West coast, with 0.9 occurrence in average per cycle, than in the East coast, with 0.1 occurrence on average (Fig.  5e ). The South coast had an intermediate ECI DRY with 0.4 occurrences per cycle on average. Similarly to drought events, ECI TMAX was higher in the West and South coasts, while it remained low in the East part of the island (Fig.  5f ). 
 Sugarcane area proportion, interpolated annual mean temperature (T MEAN ), interpolated annual rainfall (RF) and estimated N mineralization rate depending on altitude range and agro-climatic zone.  
 Based on a PCA, the extreme event indices were summarized into 2 components (ECI1 and ECI2, Fig.  6a ). The first component (ECI1, 71.3% of the explained variance) was positively correlated with ECI DRY and ECI TMAX , and negatively with ECI RF . The ECI TMAX contributed to both EIC1 and the second component (ECI2, 17.9% of the explained variance). Total yield gap (YG T ) was negatively correlated with ECI1 value (ρ SPEAR = -0.57, p < 10 -6 ), with YG T reaching around 120 Mg ha -1 in environments with heavy rainfall events (Fig.  6b ). In drier environments (i.e. high values of ECI1), YG T was relatively constant (85 Mg ha -1 in average). Following a similar pattern, management yield gap (YG M ) was negatively correlated with ECI1 (ρ SPEAR = -0.62, p < 10 -6 ). YG M increased from 0 to 90 Mg ha -1 , with increasing heavy rainfall events. On the contrary ECI2 was not correlated with YG T or YG M . The impact of heavy rainfall events (ECI RF ) on actual yield was assessed through the calculation of actual yield loss as the difference between in the highest sugarcane yield reached in each agro-climatic zone and the actual sugarcane yield in a given year. The actual yield loss was linearly correlated with ECI RF (p < 10 -6 ) and 21% of actual  sugarcane yield variance was explained by ECI RF (Fig.  6c ). On average, actual yield loss increased by 0.6 Mg ha -1 per day with rainfall higher than 28.8 mm d -1 , representing an average loss of 5.5 Mg ha -1 with a maximum of 14 Mg ha -1 due to heavy rain. Considering only the East part of the Island, the average yield loss due to heavy rain was 7.8 Mg ha - 1 but 25% of years were characterized by a yield loss higher than 10 Mg ha -1 . YG T and YG M were also linearly correlated with ECI RF (p = 4.10 -6 and p < 10 -6 ) and increased by 1.3 and 3.4 Mg ha -1 per daily heavy rain event, respectively. 
 
 The objective of this study was to link extreme events to yield gaps and highlight the need to take these events into account in yield projections under climate change. Therefore, we chose to use the whole available dataset for the model calibration to represent the maximum climate diversity in the island. Such an approach may bias the exact values of yield forecasts but should not compromise the methodological  approach of this study. Nevertheless, we argue that the performance predictions in this study remain valid because the MOSICAS model is robust with a long development history  In the current modeling approach, the impact of extreme rainfall was not taken into account in the model calibration. Across the trials used for the model calibration, the threshold of extreme rainfall was exceeded in only one trial and one year. Consequently, the YG T (i.e., the difference between thermoradiative potential sugarcane yield and actual sugarcane yield) assessed in this study resulted from water stress, management and extreme events. The assessed YG T over Reunion Island in our study was 96 Mg ha -1 on average (ranging from 67 to 132.6 Mg ha -1 depending on the years and zones). In comparison, total yield gap was estimated as 134 Mg ha -1 in Brazil  A possible bias in the YG estimation could result in the number of harvests not taken into account in the model. The MOSICAS model was calibrated as an average ratoon using data from 1 st to 5 th ratoon. Decrease in on-farm yield with number of harvests was seen as an important yield gap factor in different countries such as South Africa  Another bias in yield forecasting could result from the limited number of crop cycle available for the R579 calibration (seven crop cycle), a major cultivar planted in the East Coast and used when no information was available in this area. Nonetheless, the data used for R579 cultivar calibration were available from five different trials performed in different location and altitude ranging from 20 to 400 m a.s.l. and the rMBE considering sugarcane yield at harvest was lower than the well-calibrated R570 cultivar. 
 Considering that climate change is likely to increase extreme events occurrence  The effect of extreme rainfall on yield is variable and it could directly influence crop physiology through lodging or reduce crop yield through other factor such as fertilizer leaching or pest pressure. While fertilizer leaching can be taken into account in at least two crop models (APSIM,  Extreme rainfall is expected to increase lodging due to wet soil (poor support for roots), wet canopy (increase in cane weight), often associated with strong wind  Attempts to model lodging in sugarcane crops and its impact on crop productivity are few. The APSIM-sugar model was able to simulate yield reduction due to lodging through a user-specified stalk death rate and reduction in radiation use efficiency  
 Our results showed that the proportion of the yield gap due to water deficit and crop management was variable depending on agro-climatic zones and years in Reunion Island. In average, water deficit account for 66% of the total yield gap, which was similar with has been found in other climates (e.g. 73% in Brazil,  S5, S6 ). Additionally, irrigation was particularly efficient in low altitude in the West Coast (Fig.  S7 ), characterized by low rainfall, but also in high altitude, probably due to higher soil available water capacity. Nonetheless, such difference remains relatively small. As a comparison, in the neighbour Mauritius Island, previous studies have shown more than 100 Mg ha -1 yield gap differences between irrigated and rainfed modeled waterlimited yield  Management yield gap was only available at the agro-climatic zone scale in our study. YG M increased in favourable climatic conditions. YG M was twice higher in the East Coast with high rainfall (57 Mg ha -1 ) than the West Coast (26 Mg ha -1 ). Two processes may partly explain this response: a possible lower fertilizer use efficiency and an increase in weed pressure under high rainfall conditions. Most farmers bring in a fixed amount of N-P-K fertiliser regardless of the fertiliser formulation, expected yield or soil supply. This situation is likely to cause nutrient excess or deficiencies in sugarcane nutrition. A soil-specific nutrientmanagement expert-system is currently developed in Reunion Island to provide adapted fertilisation guidelines  The increase in YG M in rainy and warm environments is also likely to be caused by an increase in weeds pressure on sugarcane growth  
 Average total yield gap over Reunion Island was predicted as 96 Mg ha -1 , of which 34% was due to management and hazards. This yield gap increased up to 120 Mg ha -1 in non-limiting soil and climatic conditions, highlighting the influence of other factors. The use of extreme climate indices based on daily rainfall allows us to assess the impact of extreme rainfall events on yield gap and yield loss. In particular, total yield gap increased by 1.3 Mg ha -1 per number of days with rainfall higher than 28.8 mm d -1 , corresponding to an increase in actual yield loss of 0.6 Mg ha -1 per daily event. The average actual yield loss due to extreme rainfall was estimated as 5.5 Mg ha -1 but it was higher than 10 Mg ha -1 in 25% of year in the East coast. Considering the considerable economic damage implied by yield loss under extreme events, there is a need to better take into account the impact of frequent storms in crop model in tropical areas, particularly in the context of climate change.
Limiting the global mean temperature increase below 2 °C above mid-19th century levels would significantly reduce the risks and impacts of climate change  Soil organic carbon (SOC) storage represents about 25% of the potential of natural climate solutions  Our database provides a worldwide exhaustive and quantitative assessment of available meta-analyses about the impact of major interventions on SOC. It contains 15,857 effect sizes published in 217 meta-analyses covering 13,632 experimental studies that took place between 1909 and 2020, across more than 150 countries. Our database covers interventions related to land-use change, land management, and also compiles studies on the impacts of climate change. We provide the explicit locations of the primary studies used in the meta-analyses, along with the type of interventions and outcomes analyzed, providing an opportunity to identify knowledge gaps. We also report possible trade-offs between SOC and, for example, crop productivity, or soil biological and chemical variables to explore the practical implementation of the investigated interventions. Finally, to provide guidance for future work, we also identify transparency and reproducibility issues of each of the 217 meta-analyses. This database is relevant to advance the scientific and policy debate on the interest and possibility of implementing practical recommendations to increase SOC stocks, as proposed for instance by the 4p1000 Initiative, and thus contributing to climate change mitigation. Fig.  1  Methodological framework used to identify and characterize the data included in the database. Criteria for study selection are (1) duplicates are removed; (2) only studies published in English (non-English studies: n = 7) with available text (studies with non-available text: n = 7) are considered; (3) studies not dealing with SOC are excluded; (4) only meta-analyses are included; (5) the meta-analysis present at least one effect-size, i.e. a quantitative measure on SOC (or one effect-size described for different levels of SOC contents, i.e. SOC as a covariable). The hexagons represent the different characteristics analyzed in the meta-analyses or in the primary studies. 
 Data collection. The literature search was performed on January 09, 2020 (Fig.  1 ). The following search equation was used: ("meta*analysis" OR "systematic review") AND ("soil organic carbon" OR SOC OR "soil organic matter" OR SOM OR "soil carbon") in the "topic words", i.e titles, abstracts and keywords of the following databases: • Web of Science, New York, USA,  Following the recommended golden standard of systematic review  No restriction on year of publication was applied. All climatic zones and countries were considered. Sensitivity was favored over specificity. Sensitivity implies that emphasis in the search procedure is put on collecting the largest selection of potentially relevant studies at the risk of also obtaining a high number of non-relevant studies (hence increasing the duration of the screening step). In addition to the database searches, a number of other potentially relevant meta-analyses were added by the authors of this study. The literature search identified 1,535 studies (of which 1,008 were unique). These studies were compiled in a database and then screened to identify the relevant studies based on the following inclusion and exclusion criteria: (i) only studies published in English with available full text were considered; (ii) the study presents a quantitative, formal analysis of several previous empirical studies, i.e. a meta-analysis (we did not consider studies with vote-counting methods and narrative reviews were also excluded); (iii) the meta-analysis presents at least one effect-size, i.e. a quantitative measure of the magnitude, of a SOC variable, either as the main variable, or as a co-variable. The studies were first screened based on the title and abstract, and if necessary, the whole manuscript was read. Each study was screened by two authors of the present article. The rejected studies were compiled in an exclusion sheet of the database, with reasons for exclusion. Finally, 217 meta-analyses fulfilled our inclusion/ exclusion criteria, of which 18 with SOC as a co-variable. Characterization of the meta-analyses. Our database reports the meta-data (author names and affiliations, journal name, keywords, date of publication, and countries covered in the meta-analysis) for considered meta-analyses (Fig.  1 ). The transparency and reproducibility of each of the 217 meta-analyses was assessed based on criteria related to the literature search, data extraction, data analyses, and interpretations. These criteria are an adaptation of the ones proposed in several other studies covering various research fields  We also classified each meta-analysis for their scope, delineating whether they address "mitigation of climate change", "adaptation to climate change" and "food security" dimensions. Definitions of the dimensions are based on the IPCC glossary  1 ) were defined for the classification, that was manually performed by two different authors of this study. Title and abstract were screened, and the full text was studied if necessary. Consistency between reviewers was checked on a sample of 30 studies. The final database comprises respectively 199, 28 and 54 meta-analyses that analyse the mitigation, adaptation and food security dimensions. 
 We extracted all the quantitative data related to the effects reported in the retrieved meta-analyses: effect size, indicator of dispersion (confidence interval, and/or standard deviation or quantiles), significance (P-value) and number of data on which the effects were calculated (Fig.  2 ). The database contains both the effect-sizes that quantified the direct effect of an intervention on SOC, and the effect-sizes Table  2 . Co-variables reported in the meta-analyses. that assessed the effect on other outcomes but with SOC as co-variable (indirect effects). Data were collected from tables or from figures using WebPlot Digitizer software (www.automeris.io/WebPlotDigitizer/). We also described the type of metric associated with each effect-size (e.g. mean difference, ratio, hedge's d). We did not extract data from meta-regressions, correlations and their associated characteristics because of the difficulty to synthetize this type of results across different studies. However, when subgroup analyses were performed (e.g., by soil characteristics or climate zones -Table  2 ), we extracted the effects of the moderators in order to analyze and understand the variability of SOC values. The interventions related to the effect-sizes were grouped into main categories: land management, land-use change, and global changes (Figs.  2, 3 ). We considered land-use types as defined in the IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories 33 : cropland, forestland, grassland, wetlands and other land. We considered land-use change as the conversion of one of the aforementioned land uses to another one. We considered land management as any intervention performed on any of the aforementioned land uses (e.g. forest harvesting, wetland restoration, mineral fertilization). We defined global changes as planetary-scale changes other than land-use change (e.g. climate change). The database presents broad categories of interventions, but also the more detailed interventions reported in each study (Fig.  3 ). The number of effect sizes and meta-analyses is largely dominated by studies of land management, particularly for cropland. This is followed by land-use change and global change type interventions, for which the distribution of land uses is more balanced. The outcomes other than those related to SOC were grouped into seven broad categories: soil chemistry, plant productivity, soil physics, soil biology, greenhouse gases, water quality and others. The first three categories represented nearly 20-30% of the reported effect sizes. Each category was further refined into 2 to 11 subcategories (Fig.  4 ). The soil nutrient and aboveground biomass subcategories alone represented nearly 15-20% of the effect sizes. Characterization of the primary studies used in the 217 meta-analyses. We retrieved all available references (primary studies) used by the 217 meta-analyses, by searching through the available list of references, supplementary materials and databases associated with each meta-analysis. The primary studies were characterized by their meta-data (e.g. DOI, authors, date of publication, journal). Based on the title and the abstract, if necessary, we also manually extracted the type of interventions and Fig.  4  Main categories and subcategories of other effect-sizes retrieved in the 217 meta-analyses and studied concurrently with SOC. The areas are proportional to the number of effect-sizes in the database. outcomes associated with the primary studies. The manual classification into the same intervention and outcome categories as described before, was facilitated by an automatic classification based on keywords (Supplementary Table  1 ). The final database comprises 13,632 unique primary studies (Fig.  5 ). 9,130 primary studies were used in several meta-analyses. The geographical distribution showed the highest number of these primary studies in the United States and China, followed by Brazil and Canada, and then Australia, India and some European countries (United Kingdom, Germany, Spain, and Italy). The regional distribution within the five countries with the largest number of studies showed great regional disparities. Africa was the least investigated continent; no primary studies were conducted in several African countries. 
 The information extracted for each retained meta-analysis (general characterization, effect sizes and the associated primary studies) has been systematically double-checked by at least two different reviewers to reduce potential errors. After the data extraction, we examined data quality using R software. We plotted the frequency distribution of the different variables, and returned to the original studies to verify any extreme values that were identified in this process. In this step we also randomly selected ~10% of extracted data to check for consistency by comparing them with the original data. The list of included and excluded studies were further checked by creating a PRISMA diagram (Fig.  1 ). The quality criteria of the meta-analyses were checked and analyzed in detail in  4 ), per land-use type (Fig.  2 ), and per intervention (Figs. 2, 3, in  6 ) and for each combination of intervention and outcome. The information of the 'primary studies' sheet was examined by i) mapping the number of studies by country, or by region for the main countries (Figs. 3, 5 in  4  in  
 To our knowledge, this database constitutes the most comprehensive database based on published meta-analyses for analyzing the potential of various interventions for storing SOC. The database is useful for scientists and decision makers in defining relevant climate change policies to limit global warming based on robust experimental evidence. It can be used to analyze the expected efficiency and associated uncertainty of proposed solutions to store C in soils. As we systematically extracted all available data on SOC, our database can also inform about possible knowledge gaps, and can be used to guide future research agendas. Since we extracted all variables and moderators presented in the meta-analyses, the database also provides a good basis for analyzing trade-offs between SOC and other related variables. Numerous studies have indeed demonstrated that trade-offs can limit the efficiency of an intervention in mitigating climate change, as for example shown by the trade-off between SOC storage and N 2 O emissions  Importantly, our database can be easily updated using new data produced by the increasing number of meta-analyses published on this topic. We welcome anyone interested to share data or studies not included in this meta-database and send them to the corresponding author. We will add the new observations and update our database regularly with the latest experimental data. The database is currently being integrated into a web platform providing user-friendly visualisation of the data and results of soil carbon studies ( Scientific Data | (2022) 9:228 | https://doi.org/10.1038/s41597-022-01318-1
When planting sugarcane in South Africa, the normal row-spacing ranges between 1 and 1.5 m and the growth of this perennial plant is relatively slow compared to many annual food crops  Effect of intercropping on sugarcane and nematodes:  
 
 Both trials were planted within existing sugarcane fields. The irrigated field was located near Boschfontein, Tonga, in Mpumalanga (31°35'E-26°25'S). The soil was sandy: 7.5% clay, 5.2% silt, 25.6% fine sand, 30.4% medium sand and 29.5% coarse sand with a pH of 7.0. The non-irrigated field was situated in the Amatikulu district of KwaZulu Natal (31°33'E-29°01'S). The soil was sandy: 3.8% clay, 3.7% silt, 11.8% fine sand, 64.2% medium sand and 15.7% coarse sand with a pH of 5.3. At Boschfontein and Amatikulu, the planting furrows were 1.3 and 1.1 m apart respectively, into which 3-4 budded stalk cuttings (setts) of sugarcane cultivar N32 and N12 respectively were planted in September. The sugarcane was harvested after 12 and 20 months respectively. The rainfall between planting and harvesting was approximately 80% of the long-term mean at both sites (735 mm year -1 at Boschfontein and 1110 mm year -1 at Amatikulu). However at Boschfontein, the rainfall was supplemented by regular irrigation as needed. At Boschfontein, the trial was planted as a randomized block design with 4 treatments and 6 replicates. Each plot was 65 m 2 (5 rows × 10 m length × 1.3 m width). At Amatikulu, the field was too small to plant a conventional trial thus the treatments were applied to 40 row × 5 m strips, perpendicular to the row, except the nematicide treatment, which was 12 rows × 13 m long. In each strip, 6 sub-plots of 16 m 2 were delimited as replicates. 
 The intercrops investigated were peanut ( Arachis hypogaea ) and sugar bean ( Phaseolus limensis ) in the Boschfontein trial and velvet bean ( Mucuna deeringiana ) and sweet potato ( Ipomoea batatas ) in the Amatikulu trial. These crops were chosen after consultation with the growers. Details of the treatments and their application procedure are given in Table  1 . The intercrops were sown at the same time as sugarcane planting and harvested 3-4 months later. Because the velvet bean vines invaded the sugarcane row, they were cut back at 4 months and left on the soil in the interrow as green manure. The sweet potato vines were also left on the soil surface when the tubers were harvested, between 3 and 4 months after planting. The inorganic fertilizer rates applied to all the plots were calculated from the soil chemical analysis: 140 kg N/ha, 40 kg P/ha and 175 kg K/ha at Boschfontein and 120 kg N/ha, 60 kg P/ha and 175 kg K/ha at Amatikulu. The granular fertilizer was applied over the sugarcane setts before covering. An additional 50% of N, P and K was scattered between the cane rows on the sweet potato cuttings. For the legumes, no extra N was applied. Weeding was done by hand except at 3 months at Amatikulu, when metribuzin herbicide was applied at 1.44 kg ha -1 in the inter row, except for plots where the intercrops were planted. The carbamate nematicide, aldicarb, was applied by an applicator, in the furrow, over the setts, to selected plots at 3 kg/ha (20 kg Temik 15 G) before covering with soil. 
 At 1.25 and 2.5 months at Boschfontein and at 0.75, 1.5, 2.25 and 3 months at Amatikulu, all plots were sampled. Samples consisted of a single sugarcane sett (stalk cutting) dug per plot and the sett, along with 400 cm 3 rhizospheric soil, placed in plastic bags. In the laboratory, the sett roots of germinated nodes were separated from the shoot roots. At the same time, a single intercropped plant was removed from the soil, from the inter-row of each plot along with its rhizospheric soil. In the laboratory, the roots and soil were separated and processed for nematode extraction. At 3.5, 4.5, 5.5, 7, 9 and 11 months at Boschfontein and 4, 6, 7, 9 and 11 months at Amatikulu, after the sett roots had disappeared, sugarcane shoot roots were collected from between 5 and 20 cm underneath the sugarcane stool with rhizospheric soil. A representative sample of 30 thirdstage sugarcane leaves was collected from each plot, 7 months after planting for nutrient analyses. 
 Nematodes were extracted from a 200 cm 3 soil sample with  
 Chemical analysis was conducted on soil and leaves collected at 7 months after planting at both locations. From a subsample of the soil collected at 7 months, the pH (water) and ppm of P, K, S, Ca, Mg, Al, Mn, Zn, Fe, as well as the percentage of C were analysed  
 To describe the effect of the treatments on the nematodes and to exclude temporal nematode variations induced by season and rainfall, the proportion of plant-para-NEMATROPICA  Multivariate analyses were performed with ADE4 software  
 
 In the rhizosphere of the intercrops, and of the irrigated sugarcane (Boschfontein), the number of free-living nematodes was similar to the control throughout the crop cycle (Fig.  1A ). The same situation was observed for non-irrigated cane (Fig.  1B ), except at the first month after planting, where the number of free-living nematodes associated with sugarcane intercropped with velvet bean was 5 times higher than in the control plots. Nematicide treatment had no effect on free-living nematodes. For the first 3 months at the irrigated site, numbers of plant parasitic nematodes in the peanut and sugar bean rhizospheres showed contrasting population development, with a marked reduction then an increase with the peanut, and the reverse with the sugar bean (Fig.  1C ). Both were different to the sugarcane (control) rhizosphere. At the fourth month, the plant parasitic nematode community was slightly greater (+150%) in the sugarcane that had been intercropped than in the control, and was similar to that of the nematicide treatment (Fig.  1C ). For non-irrigated cane, an increase (P < 0.05) (+500%) in numbers of plant parasitic nematodes occurred in the rhizosphere of the velvet bean within the first 3 months compared to the control sugarcane; but this did not occur with the sweet potato (Fig.  1D ). Conversely to the irrigated situation, and compared with the control, the plant-parasitic community increased markedly from 5 to 7 months in the sugarcane rhizosphere, in plots previously intercropped with sweet potato (+500%) and in plots treated with a nematicide (+400%). Numbers in sugarcane that had been intercropped with velvet bean were similar to those in the control plots. Under irrigated conditions, the roots of sugar bean were more infested (+100 to 400%) than the sett roots of sugarcane in the intercropped plots (Fig.  2A ). The reverse was true for the peanut intercropped plots. Treatment with nematicide almost completely reduced sett root infestation. The shoot roots in the nematicide treated plots were also less infested than the control. However the shoot roots of sugarcane from intercropped plots were almost twice as infested as those in the control plots (Fig.  2A ). In the non-irrigated trial, a marked increase in infestation occurred in the sett roots of sugarcane intercropped with sweet potato (+1500%) and velvet bean (+600%) (Fig.  2B ). This was most prevalent at 1.5 months after planting, thereafter there was a marked reduction, presumably due to the natural death of the sett roots and emergence of new shoot roots. Few nematodes were recovered from the intercrops roots. The least infested sett roots were those from sugarcane treated with nematicide (Fig.  2B ). As soon as the sugarcane 1 7 shoot roots appeared, 2 months after planting, they were invaded by large numbers of nematodes in both intercropped plots, but especially where sweet potato had been planted (+1800%) (Fig.  2C ). After several months, the plant-parasitic nematodes were still more abundant in the shoot roots of sugarcane intercropped with velvet bean, but less so where sweet potato had been grown. 
 The statistical analyses were performed on the most abundant and frequent nema- tode species recovered from the soil and roots: At Boschfontein, the most common nematodes were: Criconematids, Helicotylenchus dihystera , Meloidogyne javanica , Paratrichodorus minor , Pratylenchus zeae , Scutellonema spp. (with a majority of S. africanum ), Tylenchorhynchus goffarti , Xiphinema coomansi , plus the free-living nematodes counted together as a single ecological group. At Amatikulu, the same species were found except S. africanum and X. coomansi were replaced by S. truncatum and X. elongatum . A few Tylenchorhynchus sp., Paratrichodorus minor , Hemicycliophora sp., Longidorus sp., Rotylenchulus parvus and Hoplolaimus pararobustus were also present in the soil, but in less than 10% of the samples and were not taken into consideration for the statistical analysis. The correlation circle of the Principal Component Analysis (PCA) performed on the average relative proportions of the different species and free-living nematodes at the irrigated site, showed, on the first axis (F1) the opposition between Meloidogyne (right) and Pratylenchus (left) (Fig.  3A ). When the factorial values corresponding to each of the plots were projected on the same factorial plan and grouped per treatment, a difference could be discerned between the nematode communities recovered from soil and the roots of sugarcane in plots intercropped with peanut and sugar bean (Fig.  3B ). More Meloidogyne and fewer Pratylenchus were recovered from the roots and rhizosphere soil of sugarcane grown in peanutintercropped plots, compared to the control. Conversely, sugarcane grown in sugar bean-intercropped plots exhibited the reverse situation, as did sugarcane in plots treated with nematicide (Figs.  3A  & B ; Table  2 ). These latter plots also had significantly greater numbers of the Criconematid species and free-living nematodes relative to the control (Table  2 ). In the non-irrigated trial, the first factor (F1) was again characterized by the opposition between Meloidogyne and Pratylenchus . However, unlike the irrigated trial, there was marked opposition along the second factor between Xiphinema (top) and Helicotylenchus (bottom) in the soil (Fig.  4A ). When the points corresponding to the plots were projected on the same factorial plan and grouped per treatment, the two intercropping treatments were both on the left part of the F1 axis (Fig.  4B ). The velvet bean treatment resulted in greater proportions of Meloidogyne , whereas the sweet potato treatment, when compared with the control, had little or no effect on the nematode community (Figs.  4A  and B , Table  2 ). The nematicide-treated plots, located on the right side of the F1 axis, was in contrast to the control and intercropping treatments, with a significantly lower proportion of Meloidogyne and consequently a higher proportion of Pratylenchus (Figs.  4A  and B , Table  2 ). Compared with the early period, there were smaller differences between the nematode communities later on in the crop cycle. This is shown by the closer clustering of the stars corresponding to the treatments on the factorial plan derived from the analysis of the 5-11 months data for both the irrigated (Fig.  3D ) and non-irrigated sites (Fig.  4D ). At the irrigated site, the peanut intercropped plots were slightly offset from the other treatments due to higher proportions of Criconematid species (Figs.  3C  and D ; Table  2 ). At the non-irrigated site, intercropping with velvet bean promoted communities with significantly more freeliving nematodes and significantly lower proportions of Xiphinema (Figs.  4C  and D ; Table  2 ). The relative proportions of Xiphinema were highest in the control plots. 
 On the correlation circle of the PCA performed on the soil parameters at the irrigated site (Boschfontein) at 7 months (Fig.  5A ), most of the soil chemical ele-ments were on the positive part of the F1 axis. In the factorial plan for comparison of treatments, the gravity centers of the stars corresponding to the four treatments were clumped in the center indicating little distinction between them (Fig.  5B ). The only significant difference was a slight increase Table  2 . Average relative proportions of the main nematode species in sugarcane soil and roots, which best explain, among a group of other nematode variables, the location of the stars corresponding to the different treatments in the factorial plan (c.f. Fig.  3  & 4 ), for the two different periods and for each trial. (mo: month). Numbers were changed to arcsin (square root (x)) prior to ANOVA or t-test. Numbers in rows in bold and followed by different letters were significantly different (p < 0.05). 
 Non in levels of S in the nematicide-treated plots (Table  3 ). As found at the irrigated site, PCA of the soil parameters at non-irrigated site (Amatikulu) placed most of the variables, except pH and S, in the positive region of the F1 axis (Fig.  5C ). In the factorial plan for comparison of treatments, the gravity centres of the stars corresponding to nematicide-treated and control plots were located on opposite sides of the F1 axis (Fig.  5D ). This was as a result of the lower Mg and Mn levels in the nematicidetreated plots (Table  3 ). Both gravity centers of the intercropped plots were located near the origin of the factorial plan (Fig.  5D ). Soils from plots intercropped with velvet bean had a significantly higher pH and higher levels of K (Table  3 ). On the correlation circle of the PCA performed on the leaf chemical parameters at the irrigated site (Fig.  6A ), the differences between treatments were most evident along the F1 axis (Fig.  6B ). The control was located near the center of the factorial plan with the nematicide-treated and the two intercrop treatments on opposite ends. However the magnitude of these differences was small for most elements, except for increased P levels in leaves of sugarcane intercropped with peanut (Table  4 ). Table  3 . Average levels of the main soil elements, which best explain, within the group of soil variables, the location of the stars corresponding to the different treatments in the factorial plan, for each trial. (cf Fig.  5 ). 
 Non On the correlation circle of the PCA of leaf chemical parameters at non-irrigated site (Fig.  6C ), K was opposed to all other elements. The location of the gravity center of plots intercropped with velvet bean in the positive part of F2 (Fig.  6D ) can be explained by higher levels of N, K, Mn and Fe and a greater N/S ratio in the sugarcane leaves (Table  4 ). The nematicide treated plots were strongly correlated with the positive part of F1 (Fig.  6D ) due to higher levels of K, and lower levels of Mg and Zn in the leaves (Table  4 ). Table  4 . Average levels of the main leaf chemical elements, which best explain, within the group of leaf variables, the location of the stars corresponding to the different treatments in the factorial plan, for each trial. (cf Fig.  6 ). 
 Non  
 The yield of the sweet potato when harvested between 3 and 4 months was more than 12 t tubers/ha. The mass of the velvet bean was not recorded but there was sufficient growth to provide thick mulch when they were cut back at 4 months. The peanut was pilfered before they could be weighed. Most of the sugar beans died from a foliar fungal infection before seeds were produced and no weights were recorded. Intercropping sugarcane with sweet potato or sugar bean had no significant effect on cane or sucrose yield or quality at harvest, even though with the sweet potato there was some effect on early growth (data not shown). Intercropping with velvet bean reduced the sucrose content (%ERC) of the cane (P<0.05) and while tons ERC was 2 t/ha lower than the control, the difference was not significant. Intercropping with peanut was associated with a significant reduction in %ERC (-1.1%), tons cane (-18 tc/ha) and tons ERC (-3.3 t ERC/ha) (Table  5 ). 
 It has been shown that intercropping, while improving the overall sustainability and viability of the sugarcane farming enterprise, could sometimes result in even more deleterious conditions, such as increasing the populations of damaging plant parasitic nematodes when planting a nematode-susceptible intercrop (e.g. many vegetables)  In addition to their effect of increasing or decreasing infestation in the roots and soil, the growing of intercrops can also affect the balance of species within a nematode community. The nematode communities between 0 and 3 months showed that intercropping with sugar bean had a similar effect as using a nematicide viz. an alteration of the endoparasitic nematode community with significant reductions in Meloidogyne and significant increases in Pratylenchus. Intercropping with peanut and velvet bean had the opposite effect. Intercropping with sweet potato had little effect on nematode species balance. These effects had largely disappeared by the time sugarcane reached maturity at the fifth month. At this stage, there were significant increases in the Criconematid species for peanut and significant increases in free-living nematodes for velvet bean, however the proportions of the other major nematode species were largely unaffected. Other researchers  It may be inferred that the multiplication of nematodes on the intercrop added to the infestation of the sugarcane roots, leading to a potentially disadvantageous situation for the sugarcane. This might have been expected to have a negative influence on the subsequent yield of the sugarcane. But, except for the peanutintercropping, this was not the case, possibly because the additional organic material, brought into the row by the harvesting of the intercrops, later in the cycle, could have favoured sugarcane growth and compensated for the nematode damage. Such a green manure effect was observed with sunn hemp hay amendment by  These increased levels of nutrients, along with the presumed organic amendment effect, may explain why for three of the intercropping treatments, there was no significant reduction in final sugarcane and sucrose yield even though the early growth was seemingly retarded. Similar work on sandy clay loam soils in Kenya found that intercropping with maize and soybean, regardless of the planting pattern, significantly decreased sugarcane tillering at the beginning of the cycle. However, yields at harvest were not affected. Intercropping with beans did not affect sugarcane tillering, yield or quality at harvest. Sugarcane yield was also better when intercropped with common bean or soybean than in a pure stand  Sowing an appropriate intercrop between sugarcane rows seems to be an efficient way of utilizing limited resources for small-scale farmers in particular. However, additional knowledge needs to be gained on the best intercrops. Whereas the success of sugarcane cultivation is based on monocropping, the success of intercropping is based on crop diversity, to avoid punctual overflow of similar products on the market and reduce pest and disease build-up. Biologically related practices, such as intercropping, can lead towards the establishment of a more balanced nematode community, often dominated by less damaging species. Such a re-balancing effect is likely to be a long-term process. Thus in the short term, often the economical profit is considered advantageous to the grower. However, in the long term, this diversity-based system will be of greater benefit particularly in terms of overall improvement in soil quality and better management of nematode losses. Numbers in bold and followed by different letters were significantly different from the corresponding control. (ANOVA; p < 0.05).
Sugarcane (Saccharum spp. hybrid complex) is an important commercial crop as 78 per cent of world sugar is produced from sugarcane. India ranks second, after Brazil, in area and production of sugarcane. The area occupying in the country is 4.7 million ha with the production of 28.10 million tons respectively  Hence to increase the productivity of sugarcane in Karnataka, various agronomic measures that reduce cost of cultivation and improve the cane productivity should be adapted. In Karnataka, most of the farmers have been already growing sugarcane in 1.2 m spacing. Wide row spaced planting helps to provide abundant sunlight for increasing cane yield, provides proper space for intercropping and intercultural operations and also proper adoption of mechanization thereby increasing the per unit profitability  The sugarcane crop depletes a considerable amount of nutrients from soil, but soybean in intercropping pattern increases productivity per unit of land and enables the crops more effectively utilize nutrients and improve soil fertility and field ecological conditions  
 The field experiment was conducted at K. J. Somaiya Institute of Applied Agricultural Research (KIAAR), Sameerwadi, (Taluk: Mudhol, Dist: Bagalkot, Karnataka) which is located at 16˚ 19ꞌ N latitude and 75˚ 69ꞌ E longitude and at an altitude of 541 m above mean sea level. KIAAR, Sameerwadi comes under northern dry zone of Karnataka (Zone no. 3). During 2013-14 season, the crop received 118.5 mm rainfall in germination and establishment stage (35 days). During tillering stage (40-120 DAP), the sugarcane received 195 mm rainfall. There was no rainfall during grand growth stage (120-270 DAP) of the crop. Around 510.9 mm of rainfall occurred during ripening and maturation stage (270-545 DAP). The total rainfall of 824.4 mm occurred during the entire 18 months crop growth period. The soil of experimental site was medium deep black. The composite soil sample from 0 to 30 cm depth was collected from the experimental area before planting of sugarcane and analyzed for chemical properties. The details of experiment with regard to crop, variety, the treatments evaluated, the design adopted and plot size are provided in table  On the day of planting cane setts, full doses of phosphorus (75 kg ha -1 ), potash (190 kg ha -1 ), zinc sulphate (25 kg ha -1 ) and ferrous sulphate (25 kg ha -1 ) along with 10 per cent of the recommended nitrogen (25 kg ha -1 ) were applied in the form of diammonium phosphate (DAP), muriate of potash (MOP) and urea respectively through fertigation. The sugarcane crop was top dressed with 50, 75 and 100 kg urea per hectare at 6 th , 10 th and 14 th weeks after planting respectively. The recommended dose of fertilizers were applied to the intercrops viz. soybean, greenpea, cucumber and watermelon at the time of sowing where as for onion, 50 per cent of the total nitrogen and full doses of phosphorus and potash were applied at sowing in furrows by mixing with the soil and remaining 50 per cent nitrogen was top dressed at 30 days after sowing (DAS). The details are furnished in table  From nine months old sugarcane crop (cv. Co86032) raised for seed multiplication, the two budded setts were prepared carefully. The setts were planted (12/07/2013) in normal method at 1.2 m spacing and in paired row system in 2.4 m and 3.6 m spacing. The seed rate for 1.2 m and 2.4 m spacing was 41667 two eye budded setts per hectare. The seed rate for 3.6 m row spacing is 27778 two eye budded setts per hectare. The setts were pushed down to a depth of 5 cm into the soil. At 4-5 days after planting of sugarcane, the seeds of intercrops i.e. soybean, greenpea and onion were dibbled in normal method of planting in furrows. The details regarding date of planting, seed rate, etc. are furnished in table  The intercrops in sugarcane viz., soybean, greenpea and onion were sown in row proportion of 1:4 in 1.2 m row spacing of sugarcane, 2:7 in 2.4 m row spacing of sugarcane (paired rows) and 2:10 in 3.6 m row spacing of sugarcane (paired rows). Pre-emergence application of herbicide Atrazine at the rate of 2.5 kg per ha was carried out at 3 days after planting (DAP) of sugarcane. Later hand weeding was taken up at 150 DAP after the harvest of all the intercrops. Earthing up was carried out at 150 DAP with the help of power tiller. Since soybean suppressed sugarcane emergence, gap filling was carried out in sugarcane intercropped with soybean plots. The three months old tissue cultured sugarcane settlings of variety Co86032 were gap filled after the harvest of soybean. The method of irrigation adopted for the experiment was drip irrigation. Before the planting of sugarcane setts, the plots were two times irrigated by flooding. Later, the plots were irrigated three days in a week by drip method. During each time of irrigation, the water was supplied four hours per day. The rate of discharge of water in drip lines was two liters per hour. Soil samples were collected form 0-15 cm depth at 150, 210 DAP and at harvest of plant cane from the experimental sites. These samples were analyzed for available N, P2O5 and K2O by following the procedures given in table  
 Nitrogen Modified Kjeldahl's method  
 Olsen's method  2   
 
 In case of row spacings, 1.2 m recorded significantly higher cane yield (111 t ha -1 ). The interaction between row spacings and intercrops was not significant. With regard to different row spacings, the sugarcane yield was significantly higher at 1.2 m spacing (111 t ha -1 ) compared to 2.4 m (89 t ha -1 ) and 3.6 m (69 t ha -1 ) row spacings (Table  4 ). Cane yield is a function of yield attributing characters such as number of millable canes (NMC), single cane weight, internodal length and cane diameter at harvest. In this study, the NMC was significantly higher in sugarcane at 1.2 m spacing (134717 ha -1 ) compared to 2.4 m (98676 ha -1 ) and 3.6 m (81114 ha -1 ) row spacings. This could be attributed to more efficient utilization of moisture, nutrients and solar energy with less inter and intra plant competition in sugarcane grown at 1.2 m spacing. The results are in agreement with  The three intercrops (soybean, greenpea and onion) had almost different growth patterns and canopies. This being the situation, soybean was quite fast in growth as well as covering the ground cover much early, thus inhibiting the emergence of sugarcane and further restricting the growth compared to other two intercrops. Due to this, large number of gaps was noticed and was filled by transplanting 90 days old sugarcane settlings after the harvest of soybean. By the end of the crop growth, these settlings had made their growth as compared to the cane grown with other two intercrops (greenpea and onion) thus producing similar yields in all the treatments. Probably had there been lesser number of rows of soybean, the impact on the growth of sugarcane would not have been as severe as noticed in the present experiment. Another reason due to which sugarcane in soybean could compensate its growth was because of 400 days which it got for the growth (Totally 545 days was the growth period). With reference to different intercropping systems, there was no significant difference between yields, NMC and single cane weight of sole sugarcane and sugarcane grown with different intercrops (soybean, greenpea and onion) and yields ranged from 85 t ha -1 to 96 t ha -1 respectively. (Table  4 ). So it can be concluded that the intercrops onion and greenpea did not affect the growth and yield of sugarcane. This might be possible due to non-exhaustive and dwarf nature of the intercrop (onion) and residual effect of the additional fertilizers as well as cultural practices and irrigation applied to intercrops grown with sugarcane  But in case of cane + soybean intercropping, soybean suppressed the growth of sugarcane due to its high canopy coverage. This resulted in low emergence of sugarcane. But after the harvest of soybean at 110 DAP, the sugarcane plot was gap-filled with 90 days old settlings. In the present study, the plant cane was harvested at 18 months. So the transplanted settlings attained better growth and hence there was no significant difference between yield, NMC and single cane weight of sole sugarcane and sugarcane grown with soybean.  
 The different row spacings did not have significant effect on the soil nitrogen content at 150, 210 DAP and at harvest. But the soil nitrogen content differed significantly due to various intercropping systems at 150, 210 DAP and at harvest. The soil nitrogen levels were significantly higher in sugarcane intercropped with greenpea (210.46, 238.34 and 190.95 kg ha-1) and soybean (192.34, 231.37 and 179.80 kg ha-1) at 150, 210 DAP and at harvest. The interaction between row spacings and intercrops was not significant (Table  5 ). Higher available nitrogen content in soils of cane grown with pulse intercrops justifies the greater availability of N in pulse intercrops compared with other intercrops. This may be due to the more soil microbes that are present, the more unavailable nitrogen can be converted into inorganic nitrogen compounds which will be absorbed by plants, accelerating nitrogen transformation, and improving nitrogen utilization. Unavailable nitrogen can be more converted into inorganic nitrogen as the urease activities increase. The decline in available nitrogen under sugarcane alone might be due to the lack of the additional dose of chemical N given for the intercrop and also the resultant biomass due to various intercrops  6 ). The effect of different row spacings was not significant on soil potassium levels of sugarcane at 150, 210 DAP and at harvest. However, soil potassium differed significantly due to different cropping systems at 150, 210 DAP and at harvest. The interaction between row spacings and intercrops was not significant except at 150 DAP. Soil potassium level was significantly higher in sugarcane + greenpea (568.80 kg ha-1) which was on par with sugarcane + soybean (552.53 kg ha-1) at 150 DAP. Significantly higher potassium level in soil was also noticed in sugarcane + greenpea (481.09 kg ha -1) at 210 DAP and it was on par with sugarcane + onion (477.92 kg ha-1) and sugarcane + soybean (467.18 kg ha-1). At harvest, soil potassium was significantly higher in sugarcane + onion (517.77 kg ha-1) which was on par with sugarcane + greenpea (504.57 kg ha-1) and sugarcane + soybean (489.18 kg ha-1). Higher levels of available soil potassium in sugarcane intercropping systems compared to sole sugarcane at 150, 210 DAP and at harvest may be attributed to higher soil enzymatic activity in pulse crops compared to cereals (Table  7 ). The results are in accordance with
In this age of rapid and remarkable technological change in the production systems of both the irrigated and rainfed regions of Pakistan, intercropping has evinced as one of the most efficient and profitable production system especially for small farmers with limited land and inputs resources  Autumn-planted sugarcane occupies the land for more than one year and hence the farmers have no chance to take an other crop in both the rabi and kharif season. The only way to harvest another crop during this period is to grow intercrops in it. Autumn-planted sugarcane is very suitable for intercropping because of its slow growth rate during the winter and early spring due to prevalence of low temperature. This period can safely be utilized for raising suitable rabi intercrops maturing up to the end of April without doing much damage to the associated cane crop. Consequently the present study explored the possibility of intercropping in sugarcane and determined the effect of different associated cultures on the production potential and juice quality of autumn-planted sugarcane. 
 The study was conducted at the University of Agriculture, Faisalabad. Intercropping treatments comprised sugarcane + sunflower, sugarcane + wheat, sugarcane + gram, sugarcane + lentil, sugarcane + peas, sugarcane + garlic, sugarcane + sarsoon and sugarcane alone. The experiment was laid out in a randomized complete block design with four replications. The net plot size was 4.8 m x 8 m. A recommended sugarcane cv. BF-162 was planted in 90-cm spaced 2-row strips on 25th of September, 1990 and harvested at the end of December, 1991. Double budded setts were placed end to end in each furrow. Lentil (Lens esculenta), gram (Cicer arietinum), wheat (Triticum aestivum), and peas (Pisum sativum) were intercropped on November 1, while sunflower (Helianthus annuus), garlic (Alium sativum) and sarsoon (Brassica compestris) were interplanted on October 18, 1990. A basal dose of 150-100-100 kg NPK ha -1 was used in the form of urea, Single Super Phosphate and Sulphate of Potash, respectively. All the phosphorus, potash along with half of nitrogen was applied at the time of planting while the remaining half of nitrogen was top-dressed after the harvest of intercrops before earthing up in the month of May. Total 18 irrigations, each of 10 cm, were applied during the entire growing period of the sugarcane crop. Observations on relevant parameters of the component crops were recorded by using standard procedures. Pol reading of the extracted juice of canes in each treatment was separately recorded with the help of a polarimeter. The cane juice sucrose content (%) was calculated using the Schmitz's table. The data collected were subjected to Fisher's analysis of variance technique and LSD test at 0.05 P was used to compare the differences among treatment means  
 The data on number of canes m -2 indicated that there were significant differences among the intercropping treatments (Table  I ). Sugarcane intercropped with garlic, peas, lentil and gram produced statistically the same number of canes m -2 as for sugarcane alone but differed significantly from rest of the intercropping treatments. The minimum canes m -2 (9.77) were recorded in case of sugarcane intercropped with sarsoon which were statistically equal to that intercropped with sunflower and wheat. The reason for less number of canes m -2 in these treatments was continuous exhaustive competition between the component crops. Reduction in tillering capacity of sugarcane by 13.47 and 3.53% as a result of berseem and wheat intercropping respectively has also been reported by  Stripped cane yield ha -1 was influenced differently by the various intercrops (Table  I ). Although the highest cane yield (149.94 t ha -1 ) was obtained from sole sugarcane but it was at par with sugarcane intercropped with garlic, peas and lentil giving on an average 147.92, 146.09 and 142.70 t ha -1 , respectively. The minimum cane yield of 117.25 t ha -1 was recorded for sugarcane intercropped with sarsoon which was statistically equal to that intercropped with sunflower and wheat producing on the average 123.26 and 122.92 t ha -1 , respectively. Reduction in cane yield as a result of sarsoon, sunflower and wheat was attributed to exhaustive competition between the component crops for essential nutrients, water and other growth factors. However, at the cost of this much reduction in cane yield, the additional harvest of  II ). Reduction in cane yield as a result of different intercrops has also previously been reported by  The cane tops' weight was also affected significantly by intercropping. Significantly the minimum tops weight of 16.77 t ha -1 was recorded for sugarcane associated by peas, which was at par with sugarcane intercropped with garlic (17.77 t ha -1 ), gram (18.83 t ha -1 ) and sole sugarcane (18.63 t ha -1 ). Rest of the intercropping combinations produced
In October 1995, representatives of the small scale sugarcane growers in KwaZulu-Natal approached the South African Sugar Experiment Station (SASEX), to request an irnprovement in access to information to enable them to: improve their average cane yields intensify agricultural production by intercropping cane with food crops improve l'ood security. As the latter two topics were not solely concerned with sugarcane research, they could not be funded from the canc levies, which thus required the close involvement of the KwaZulu-Natal Department of Agriculture (KZNDA). After much discussion, a Joint Project between SASEX and KZNDA was initiated i n August 1996 to run for five years, to address the needs of the small scale cane growers. The KZNDA agreed to research the potential for intercropping sugarcane with food crops chosen by the farmers to produce extension recommendations for the efficient and economic production of food crops grown withinladjacent to cane. Intercropping implies that two or more crops are grown on the same piece of land at the same time. Intercropping is one of the most important features of farming in developing countries, with 50 to 80% of rainfed crops being planted in intercrop mixtures. The usefulness of the intercropping system has often been eondemncd as inherently primitive and in many countries became aware that this system does, in I'act, have scientific merit, and is one of the best-suited to the African environment, particularly with regard to the nutritional requirements of the farm family  In theory, sugarcane is a crop that offers unique possibilities for intcrcropping. The plant cane crop takes two to three months to becomc established. during which time food crops can be planted i n the interline spaces, to make better use of incident solar energy and rainfall. The food crops selected must mature, and be harvested, befor-e the cane canopies at three to four months after planting. The major limitations are that of insufficicnt rainfall, and a lack of availabile soil nutrients. 
 Most countries wherc cane is produced by small scale farmers have considered the intercropping of cane as a means to improve home food security. Thc largest volume of scientific papers originate from India, where extensive intercropping research has been done on a total of 84 different crops in the four northern-most States wherc climatic conditions are similar to those found in KwaZulu-Natal. ' The other centres 01' research include Pakistan, Brazil, West Indies, Fiji, Phillipines, ~ndonesii, Egypt, Kenya and Mauritius. The two countl-ies where in~crcropping of canc is practised widely on a commercial scale are India and Mauritius. Mauritius has been growing cane since 1639, having been self-sufficient in sugar since 1755. Now more than 87% of the arable land of the island is planted to cane. and there is no ncw land available Ihr the intensification of food production, which has caused a considerable problem for the adequate product~on of food crops to support the island's large population  In KwaZulu-Natal there are estimated to be a total of over 52 000 small scale cane growers, of which over 50% are concentrated into the areas scrved by the mills of Amatikulu, Felixton, Sezela and Eston, so these were the areas selectcd for the siting of the cane intercropping trials. Many farmers in KwaZulu used to intcrcrop their canc on an ad hoc basis, but the mill extension services strongly discouraged this practice on the grounds that it would interfere with mechanisation of the crop. and would prevent the use of residual herbicides, leading to unacceptable weed levels. Intercropping by Indian farmer$ near to Durban markets is still practised on a very small scale, and I S mainly used for the production of Indian vegetables. However, none of these practices has been well documented, and there are no extension recomrnendations in existence for intercropping cane in South Africa. Prior to the start of the Joint Project, therc was almost no research data originating from South Africa concerning the intercropping of cane. In 1984, the effect of inter-specific competition between cane and dry beans on the growth of the two crops was investigated  
 Due to the high conccntration of dryland small scale producers in the Amatikulu mill area, (28% of the total for KwaZulu-Natal), the first trials were initiated on a Tongaat-Hulett farm near the mill, at an altitude of 100 m above sea level, on a heavy black Dwyka soil. The soil was analysed at Cedara (KZNDA) and SASEX, and fertilisers were applied separately to each and every crop at planting, according to the rccommcndations for a sole crop. The spring trial was planted in October 1996 and, adjaccnt to it, the summer trial in February 1997. Both trials had a split plot design, the main treatment being the food crop, with the NI6 cane occupying half of each main treatment plot, enabling a direct comparison between the yields of food crop + cane, and sole food As some of the small scale cane growers have access to irrigation, and a new dam near Pongola has the potential to provide irrigation for canc, the trial design described above was repeated under irrigation during the winter at Makhathini at an altitude of 65 m above sea level, i n the extreme NE of KwaZulu-Natal, where planting took place in May 1997. The same crops and cultivars wcre planted, although the available canc variety was N 19, rather than N 16. Fertilisers were applied to each crop as recommended for sole crops, based on soil analysis. The trial was situated on a heavy red Hutton soil, and irrigation from the river was provided through overhead sprinklers and draglines. In the first trial (October 1996), cabbages were planted at 40 cm between seedlings in the row for all plots, and other food crops were planted at varying spacing within the row, depending on whether they were in sole stand, or intercropped (in ittllics in brackets), because it was anticipated that the cane crop would compete with the food crops to reduce their yields. Thus maize: 30 cm (45 cm); potato: 30 cm (45 cm); groundnuts: 8 cm (12 cm); and beans: 6 cm (9 o n ) . As all the cane was planted i n 1,2 m rows, the single row of food intercrop was also effectively planted at 1,2 m. In sole stand, all the food crops were planted in rows 90 cm apart. except for cabbage which was planted at 60 cm. This meant thal all intercrops had 50% of thc sole crop stand per plot. Exccpt for cabbagc, it was observed that the food crop plants within the cane under-utilised the space available, and therc was no evidence that any food crops suffered from inter-specific competition from the cane, so in the summer (February 1997), and winter (May 1997) trials, all the food crops were planted within the row at spacings similar to the first trial, whether they were intercropped or sole: maize at 30 cm, cabbage at 40 cm, potatoes at 30 cm, groundnuts at 8 cm and beans at 6 cm. This meant that the relationship changed so that all intercrop plots had 75% of the sole crop stand, exccpt for cabbagc, which maintained the 50% level. This relationship of food crop stand between solc and intercropped plots is important when considering the relative yields presented in Tablc 3. The secdcane was planted first, at a double stick seeding rate, in rows 1,2 m apart. The seedcanc was covered with soil and, i n the plots where the cane was intercropped, a single row of the food crop was planted in the centre of the interline space within three days 01' planting the seedcane. Cane plot size: gross 6 rows x 8 m long, nct 4 rows X 6 m long; solc food crop plot size: gross 6 rows (or 8 rows for cabbage) x 8 m long, net 4 I-ows (or 6 rows for cabbage) X 6 m long. crop. The plots ' ere randomised I ; blocks, with four repli-For all three trials described in this paper, the day after plantcates of all treatments. The food crops tested were those ing the food crops, all plots received a herbicide application identified by farmers to be of paramount importance to them, of 2,5 L/ha Lasso Micro Tech (alachlor), and an insecticide V13 maize, cabbage, potatoes, groundnuts and beans. The application of 3 L/ha Ambush (pcrmethrin) against cutcultivars selected were PAN 6363, Hercules, Mnandi, Anel. worms. All post-emergent weed~ng was done by hand labour, as therc were no chemicals which could be uscd safely on all the crops grown, and most small scale farmers would be unable to afford the agrochemicals required. Stalk borer granules were placed in the funnels of the maize plants when the planrs were 60 cm tall, and caterpillar and bollworm damage to the cabbages and bcans was controlled with three mid-season sprays of Ambush at 100 mllha. A foliar spray of 150 glha sodium molybdate was applied to the cabbages, beans and groundnuts three wccks after planting to ensure no molybdenum deficiency occurred. Thc cane, cabbage, maize and potato crops all received a top-dressing of LAN nitrogen fertiliser at the recommended rates and times according to soil analysis. Fungicidcs and other agrochemicals wcre not used to control diseases. 
 Spring trial at A~aatilil~l~l -Cane The NI6 canc took 28 days to emerge from the ground, and then grew slowly for the first 60 days, minimising the competition between canc and food plants in the intercropped plots. However, by 108 days from planting, a clear ell'ect of the intercrop could be seen on cane pcrfonnance ('personal communicat~on). The early reduction in growth of the spring-planted cane (Table  I ) caused by the intercrops of cabbage, potato, groundnuts and beans, and thc reduction in tillcring (stalk count in thousandslha) where thc cane was intercropped by maizc, potato, groundnuts and beans, agrccs with the results obtaincd by a number of researchers.  Tahle 1. Effect of intercrop on cane growth at 108 days after planting. India,  I  had increased tillering, due to the early application of 480 kglha LAN top-dressing on the intercrop.  2  shows that all intercrops tested tended ro rcducc all three parameters listed including cane yiclds, which agrccs with the findings of most researchcrs on cane intercropping, including those quoted above. The yicld of sole canc, at 82,6 tlha was considered reasonable for the area, based on the 51 week total rainl'all of only 829 mm. From the statistical analysis of data presented in Table  2 , i t can be seen that only the groundnut crop significantly reduced all three parameters (p <0,05), but in addition, potato significantly reduced both stick height and stalk count, and cabbage significantly reduced slick hcight and cane yields (both to p <0,05). 
 -Food c i ~) / ~s PAN 6363 maize grew rapidly, tasselling at 57 days, silking at 63 days, and being ready for harvest at 84 days after planting, when the plants reached a hcight of 1,8 m. Despite having received only 268 mm rainfall from planting to harvest, a good seed set was achicvcd, and no diseases affected the plants. When cane intercroppcd with maize was harvested, competition between thc two crops had reduced stick height and stalk count by only 5%, and the yield of cane by 12,3%. Green mealie cobs arc sold singly, not by weight, thus Table  3  presents the yiclds in terms of both the numbcr of cobslha, and the tons of cobslha. The table shows that, for this spring trial, there was no significant dil'rcrence between yields in tonslha from the intercropped and sole plots, despite the for- The spring planted Hcrculcs (a heat tolerant cultivar) cabbages developed well, but suffered early diamond-back caterpillar damage which resulted in a number of multiplehead cabbages, which were unsaleable. The crop was harvested on the same date as the green mealies. A numbcr of heads suffered symptoms of tip burn caused by an insufficiency of calcium inside the plant at the time of head expansion, typical of cabbage produced under hot conditions. Cabbages were found to be in high demand in the Gingindlovu area in January, where they retailed at R 1 .OO to R2,50 per head, depending on size. The cabbage intercrop had a much greater competitive effect upon the cane than had maizc, so that stick height and stalk count were reduced by an average of 13,5%, and cane yields by 22,5%. Cabbages arc sold as single heads. or in pockets. for both of which large heads sell for more than small heads. The pattern seen in Table  3  for maizc was repeated for cabbage, whereby the yields from the intercrop plots in tons/ha were considerably more than 50% of the sole stand yield, and the individual cabbage head weights were significantly heavier in thc intcrcrop plots. Thus the inter-specific competition between cane and cabbage, or cane and maize, was actually less lhan the intra-specific competition between food crop plants in sole stands. from heat and water stress. At 112 days from planting, the crop had received a total of 365 m m of rainfall, which proved totally inadequate, and fewer tubers were hal-vested than had been plantcd. It was evident that this crop cannot be expected to produce any economic yield when growing at low altitudes during the summer where irrigation is not available. Dcspite an inability to produce an economic tuber yield, the plants nevertheless compctcd with the cane, to produce an 8% reduction in stick height, a 22% decrease in stalk count, and a 17,4CX1 loss in cane yield. The low yields in Table  3  show that the intercrop yield was greater than expected from thc 50% sole crop stand. The groundnut cultivar Ancl was chosen for its ability to yield well undcr hot, dry conditions. Its compact, upright habit should have made it compatible as an intercrop in cane. Due to the isolation of this crop at Amatikulu. the crop suffered none of the normal groundnut diseases. As shown in Table  3 , a good yield of nuts was produced when the crop was harvested 120 days from planting, having received a total of 370 mm of rainfall. As seen for the other food crops, the yield of 1,03 tonslha nuts from the intercrop was considerably higher than 50% of the sole crop yields, once again indicating a higher productivity from intercropped groundnut plants. However, for some unknown reason, the ground-The potato cultivar, Mnandi, was chosen for its rcsistancc to nut plants competed very heavily with the cane throughout blight, and no other diseases caused any problems, but the season. In the field, all the cane whcrc groundnuts were throughout its growing season, the crop suffered severely interplanted was stuntcd and yellow. At cane harvest. the nil groundnuts had reduced the stick height by 17%, the stalk for selected crops. In all the papers quoted in the paragraph count by 18,5% and the cane yield by an unacceptably high above, research workers showed that, although the inter-spe-34,1%. No reference could be found in the literature to cific competition between food intercrop and cane was explain this htgh degree of competition. greater than the intra-specific competition between cane plants, which caused cane yield reductions, the loss in cane The dry beans suffered from windburn at the beginning of revenue was more than compensated for by the value of the season, and flowered 51 days after planting. This coinsome of the intercrops tested. In the spring trial, the loss in cided with a period of very high temperatures, which caused income due to the decrease in cane yield caused by compemany flowers to abort, and young pods to fall off. There tition from the intercrop, was far lower than the value of the were no problems of pests or diseases, but by 64 days most intercrop, even for cabbages, which reduced both the cane plants were severely wilted, and there was no crop to haryield and the sucrose percentage. The food value of the intervest. Due to the very short time this crop was actively growcrop. 01. [he revenue raised from its salc only three to four ing, it was not surprising that it competcd least with the cane, months after planting, has the potential to uplift the cash causing only a 9,6% reduction in cane yields. flow Tor thc farming family, yet allows a profit to be made 
 To enable a comparison between intercrop combinations, and because the farmer, who is the end-user of the research findings, will need to know how to improve the profitability of his farming system, i t was decided to convert the yields of the various crops to the common denominator of financial value (Rlha). This techniquc has been used by a large number of research workcrs. In India.  Table  4  shows the combined cconomic data calculated for the yields of the sole cane and intercrops for the spring trial at Amatikulu. It is immediately evident that the intercrops of cane + maize (for green mealies) and canc + cabbage produced a profit far exceeding that produced by sole cane, despite the reduction in cane yields caused by both crops. This is the reason why many countries consider that the intercropping of canc is worthwhile on a commercial basis from the cane later in the ycar. However, Table  4  also shows that, due to poor yields, intercropping with potatoes, groundnuts or bcans would seriously reduce the profits of the farmer, who would be better off planting sole cane rather than selecting any of these thrce crops. A late summer trial was planted at Amatikulu, to determine whether the food crops would be betlcr able to survive under dryland conditions if they were planted in February, so that they would mature when the season was cooling down. Curie 11 had bccn intended that thc NI6 plant cane from this trial should be ratooned i n Scptember 1998, and replanted with food intercrops to determine their ability to compete with the faster growing first ratoon. However, the dcgrec to which the cane became infected with smut meant that an unacceptably high number of stools would havc been lost, thus the trial was instead harvcstcd in June 1998 aTtcr 16 months, to enable the land to be cleared in time for planting new trials with more resistant cane varieties in spring 1998. During the 16 months, the trial received a total of 1 152,6 mm of rainfall, and produced a massive yield of almost 150 tons Treatment * Production costs of cane are reduced in intercrop because no residual cane herbicides applied, saving R320/ha, and due to cane yield reduction which affects transport (R0 ,67/ton lan X 30 km) and levy. " Sucrose value: R953/ton # Food crop values based on mlnimum prices during yearactual values likely to be higher (i.e. green mealies = R0,70/cob or R1 750/ton; cabbage = R0,90-R1,50/head or RGOO/ton; potatoes = RGOO/ton; groundnuts = R2 050/ton; beans = R2 300/ton). 
 Indicates that intercrop comb~nat~on gave significantly higher prof~ts than sole cane.   ( Cane + beans  1 1 2 9 , 2 ( 7 6 9 7 12, 9 1 5 4 0 4 )   1, 2 1 2 7 5 0   2 7 6 0 1  7 7 1 7 1  * Production costs of cane are reduced in intercrop because no residual cane herbicides applied, saving R320/ha, and due to cane yield reduction which affects transport (R0 ,75/ton km X 30 km) and levy. ** Sucrose value: R922.41 /ton. # Food crop values based on minimum prices dur~ng yearactual values likely to be higher (i.e. green mealies = R0,70/cob or R1 750lton; cabbage = R0,90-R1,50/head or RGOOIton; potatoes = RGOOIton; groundnuts = R2 05O/ton; beans = R2 300Iton). ( Indicates that intercrop combination gave significantly higher profits than sole cane. canetha in the sole plots. Even when converted to a 12 month figure, a yield of 112,2 tons canelha was considered very good for the area. No doubt due to the longer period between the harvest of food crops and the harvest of cane, the cane was better able to recover from the inter-specific competition it suffered in the first lhur months aftcr planting, so the reduction in canc yield caused by the intcrcrops was far less than in the October trial, as shown in Tablc 5 . 
 Initially high temperatures put a lot of stress on the food crop seedlings, but the cxcellen~ rains of April and May 1997. together with the more favourable temperatures in autumn, ensured cabbage and green mealie yields far in excess of those harvested from the October 1996 trial. After 92 days. and only 194 mm of rain, PAN 6363 green mealies and Hercules cabbages wcre harvccted. Thc mealies produccd much heavier cobs than from the previous trial, and only decreased canc yields by 4,696. The cabbages were also significantly heavier than those of the prevlous trial, and reduced cane yields by only 3,2%. Tablc 3 shows the yieldc achieved by the solc and intercropped food crops. ' The pattern of a heavier crop per plant in the intercrop demonstrated by the data for the spring trial was not seen in this trial for any of the food crops As in the October 1996 trial. the potatoes performed very badly, proving their unsuitability as a dryland crop at the coast. Tlie seed potatoes suffered badly from the vcry hot planting conditions, so that many tubers rottcd in the wet soil, resulting i n very poor stands of stunted stems, which produced no tubers at all. Despite this poor growth. thc potato intercrop succeeded in reducing cane yields by 16%;;. The groundnuts were infected by a number of serious fungal diseases (Cercosportr, Plzorna and rust), and yields were further reduced by rabbits. Al'ter 134 days and 240 mm of rainfall, they produced very uneconomic yields, even in the sole plots. Once again, the intercrop competed heavily with the cane to produce a 15% yield reduction. The beans suffered from a late infestation by red spider mite, and also from severc rust, but when they were harvested after 126 days and 230 mm of rainlhll, they produced reasonable yields of 1,8 tlha in solc stand, and 1,2 ttha in cane. The beans caused a 13,6% decrcase in cane yields. Su~ilri~er. tr.inl nt Anlrrtikcilirintercrop costs and profits: co~nbined drrtci for c.rr17e nrzd,food crops (Table  5 ) Tablc 5 shows a massive increase i n sole cane yields over that of the previous trial, partly due to the l6 month cut instead of a 12 month cut and to the greater total rainfall, hence a greatly improved level of profitability from sole canc. It was interesting that the sucrose percentage was also much highcr when cutting cane in June as opposed to October. Once again, the pattern seen from the spring trial was repeated in the summer trial, in that the two intercrops, cane + maize and canc + cabbage, gave thc highest increase in prosits. except this time cabbage had a slight edge over maize, despite the higher costs 1. 01-transport. Due to poor yields and the degree of competition, which seriously reduced the canc yields, the intercrops of potatoes, groundnuts and beans reduced the prol'itability level well below that achieved by sole cane. 
 Due to the cool conditions. the cane took eight weeks to emerge from the soil and remained vcry short throughout the growlh cyclc of the l'ood crops, so little competition for light was evident. Thc cane was harvested exactly 365 days after planting, during which time the crop received 570 mm of irrigation plus 828 mm of rainfall, to give a sole crop yield of 122.7 tlha. Table  6  summarises the yields of cane and intercrops, from which i t can be seen that, as water was not limiting, planting potatoes between the cane rows actually increased the canc yield to 155,6 tlha (26,8% increase). This finding agrees with Imam et (11. (1990), working i n Bangladesh, who suggest that this increase i n cane yield Proc S Afr S ~i g TecIzr101 ASS (1999) 7-3 resulted from high levels of P and K left over from the potashows, once again, that the intercrop cabbages produced to crop, which is an inefficient feedcr. Verma and Yadav much more than 50% of the yield of the sole crops. In fact, (1988) found similar results in India, provided the water supthe data Ihr individual head size shows a significantly heavply was not limiting, and  Due to the extended period of waterlogging of the soil the 
 The trial was planted during the winter of 1997 as the summer was considered too hot for the intercrops on the Makhathini Flats. The winter was much cooler and wetter than normal. This rcsulted in waterlogging of the heavy red soils causing the death of the groundnut and dry bean plants before seeds were produced. Due to far fewer heat units during the winter, the green mealie crop took 50% longer than in the summcr trials to reach maturity, so that i t was harvested after 125 days, having received 369 mm of irrigation plus 181 mm of rainfall. Good yields of food crops were produced both in sole stand and where intercropped with cane, as shown in Table  3 . There was a return to the pattern exhibited by the spring trial at Amatikulu in that, although the intercrop had 75% of the sole stand, the cob yield in tonslha was 87%, cob number per plant l07%, and number of saleable cobs 87%. Thus the maize plants grown in the interline spaces havc a higher productivity per plant than when grown in pure stand. Competition with the cane plants caused a significant reduction in cane yield (38,3%). The cabbages took 105 days to reach maturity, during which time they received 324 mm of irrigation plus I I I mm of rainfall. The very wet conditions caused many of the cabbages to be infected with black rot. Even so, excellent yields were produced from sole and intercropped plots. Table  3  potato yields were low but still much better than had been produced in the summer trials. Table  3  shows that the productivity of plants i n sole and intercropped plots was similar. The potato crop was harvested on the same day as the green mcalies ( 1 25 days, with 369 mm irrigation and 181 mm rainfall), and for the econon~ics of irrigation calculations the maize, beans, groundnuts and potatoes were all considered to have received the same amount of irrigation. Winter tricll at Mrrklznthir~i -intercrop costs and profits: combinecl data for cane and food crops (Table  6  ) Despite the 38.3 and 213% reductions in cane yields caused by competition from the intercrops of maize and cabbage respectively, Table  6  gives a convincing message that using these intercrops considerably increases the profitability of growing cane during the winter under irrigation at Makhathini. As shown in the summer trial at Amatikulu, the profit from the cabbage + cane intercrop was greater than from cane + maize, but the advantage of the maize + cane system was the lower outlay required to produce the intercrop. Table  6  also shows that where the potato intercrop increased the cane yield it dccreased the sucrose percentage (i.e. there was a dilution of sucrose in the larger cane sticks), but not to such a degree that this crop mixture did not havc the highest sucrose yield of any treatmcnt tested. Although the Net Profit column shows that cane + potato gave a bet- Indicates that intercrop combination gave significantly higher profits than sole cane. Costs of production include cost of irrigation calculated as follows (figures from Combud Crop Budget 1997, produced annually by Economics Section of KZN Department of Agriculture, Cedara): Irrigation power Q Rl,OO/mm/ha, irrigation labour Q R0,62/mm/ha, irrigation repairs Q R0,05/mm/ha. Each food crop received a different total of irrigation due to varying times to maturity. lxiv Proc S Afr S ~i g Technol Ass  73 ter profit than sole cane, the outlay of capital to establish the potato intercrop would not have been justified. As expected from the nil yields caused by a waterlogged soil, neither legume planted justified their inclusion into cane, even where they tended to increase canc yields. 
 The three intercropping trials clearly showed that thc inclusion of an intercrop of cabbages, or of maize grown for green mealies, has the potential to increase the profitability of plant cane, under both dryland and irrigated conditions, despite the competitive effect of the food crop reducing cane yiclds. There is a strong tendency for the intercrop plants between the cane rows to have a higher individual productivity than when plantcd in sole stand. This means that for crops such as green mealies and cabbages, wherc market price is closcly linked to rhe size of the product per plant, small scalc cane growers who wish to produce these food crops should plant them betwccn the canc lines of their plant cane, rather than cultivating extra land to plant a sole stand of rood crop. Proc S Afr Sug Techtlol Ass (1999)  73   
			 Proc S Afr S ~l g Technol Ass(1999)  73Ixv
Cultural practices that improve the sustainable production of regionally specific crops are needed to ensure the economic viability of rural areas and to protect natural resources. For example, sugarcane (Saccharum spp. hybrids) is commercially produced on 340,000 ha exclusively in Louisiana, Florida, and Texas (USA), at a value of $1.07 billion US annually  Cover cropping may be a solution to not only soil erosion and degradation, but to control weeds, improve field trafficability, and increase soil organic carbon (C) and nitrogen (N) status  Cover crop adoption likely depends on the effects of the cover crop on succeeding sugarcane crops.  Therefore, the objective of the research was to determine the effects of growing leguminous cover crops, instead of fallowing soil, on subsequent sugarcane yields. Both cowpea and sunn hemp were chosen as cover crops because of high biomass production potential, N fixation capacity, and seed availability. Historical evidence, passed down from growers and agronomists, suggests that terminating cover crops too close to planting sugarcane can lower yields due to a composting effect of cover crop residue on the recently planted sugarcane seed cane. Therefore, a second objective was to determine the half-life of different cover crop residues in soil at a range of temperatures characteristic of temperate sugarcane production regions. 
 
 The study was conducted at the Alma Plantation in Lakeland, LA, USA (30   1 . To a 10.1 ha level graded field, iron clay cowpea was broadcast on 1 April 2011, at a rate of 56.1 kg/ha to the northern two-thirds of the field, and the remainder of the field was left bare. The cowpea crop was not irrigated. Total annual precipitation was 1252 mm (2011) and 1586 mm (2012) (Figure  1 ). A month after planting cowpea, the field was sprayed with clethodim [(5RS)-2-{(1EZ)-1-[(2E)-3-chloroallyloxyimino]propyl}-5-[(2RS)-2-(ethylthio)propyl]-3-hydroxycyclohex-2-en-1-one] at 45.6 g active ingredient a.i./ha for post-emergence grass control. On 19 July 2011, four 1 m 2 samples of cowpea were collected from random locations within the planted area of the field to estimate dry matter production, 5.6 t/ha. The percent N by dry combustion was 2.51%, corresponding to 282 kg N/ha. On 7 August 2011, the field was mowed and disked twice to incorporate the cowpea biomass. Prior to planting sugarcane, 1.83-m spaced rows were drawn across entire field. Sugarcane cultivar 'L 01-283'  1 ). A month after planting cowpea, the field was sprayed with clethodim [(5RS)-2-{(1EZ)-1-[(2E)-3-chloroallyloxyimino]propyl}-5-[(2RS)-2-(ethylthio)propyl]-3-hydroxycyclohex-2-en-1-one] at 45.6 g active ingredient a.i./ha for postemergence grass control. On 19 July 2011, four 1 m 2 samples of cowpea were collected from random locations within the planted area of the field to estimate dry matter production, 5.6 t/ha. The percent N by dry combustion was 2.51%, corresponding to 282 kg N/ha. On 7 August 2011, the field was mowed and disked twice to incorporate the cowpea biomass. Prior to planting sugarcane, 1.83-m spaced rows were drawn across entire field. Sugarcane cultivar 'L 01-283'  
 Multiple studies were conducted at the Louisiana State University (LSU) Iberia Research Station in Jeanerette, LA, USA (29 • 57 33" N, 91 • 42 41" W) on a Baldwin silty clay loam soil (Fine, smectitic, hyperthermic Chromic Vertic Epiaqualfs). Chemical characteristics are presented in Table  1 . Sunn hemp was planted, at 11 kg/ha, in a field previously cropped to sugarcane on 19 April 2011, by double drilling seed into 1.83-m spaced rows using a two-seat tractor-driven research planter, set to a depth of 15 mm. The field had been fallowed during the winter of 2010 and spring of 2011. No irrigation was used. Total annual precipitation was 973 mm (2011), 1403 mm (2012), 1668 mm (2013), 1280 mm (2014), and 1786 mm (2015) (Figure  1 ). The sunn hemp crop was mowed close to the soil surface on 24 July 2011, 96 days after planting, and incorporated using a 3-row cultivator on 8 August 2011. One m 2 sample of shredded sunn hemp were collected from random locations within the planted area of the field to estimate dry matter production, 13.5 t/ha. The percent N was 1.58% and corresponds to 214 kg N/ha. Sugarcane cultivar 'L 99-226'  A second sunn hemp trial was planted on 4 April 2012, to a field previously cropped to sugarcane. The field had been fallowed during the winter of 2012 and spring of 2013. No irrigation was used. Mowing and incorporating sunn hemp residue occurred on 21 June 2012 and 3 July 2012, respectively. The sunn hemp exhibited a lower N content than the previous year, 1.46%, corresponding to an incorporation rate of 197 kg N/ha. Sugarcane cultivar 'L 99-226' was hand planted at a three-stalk rate with a 10% overlap on 12 September 2012 to the area previously used to grow sunn hemp, and an adjacent fallow area. Experimental plots measured 5.5 m wide (3 rows) by 10.7 m long and included four replications. Nitrogen fertilizer was applied on 6 May 2013 as described above, at rates of 0, 45, and 90 kg/ha. Fertilizer rates were randomly assigned to plots within the cover crop or fallow areas. The plant cane crop was harvested on 4 December 2013 using a combine harvester and dump wagon, and the billet samples were ground using a rotary knife mill and extracted juice was analyzed as previously described. Data on ratoon crop were not collected. A cowpea trial was initiated in a field previously cropped to sugarcane. Cowpea was planted at a rate of 56 kg/ha on 1 May 2013, by double drilling seed into 1.83-m spaced rows using a two-seat tractor-driven research planter, set to a depth of 15 mm. The field had been fallowed during the winter of 2012 and spring of 2013. The field was sprayed with fluazifop-P-butyl [(R)-2-(4-[5-(trifluoromethyl)-2-pyridyloxy]phenoxy)propionic acid] at 0.21 kg a.i./ha for grass control on 16 June 2013. Cowpea was mowed on 24 July 2013 and incorporated on 31 July 2013. Sugarcane cultivar 'L 01-299'  
 A laboratory study was undertaken to determine the effect of temperature on cover crop residue decomposition. Cancienne silt loam soil (Fine-silty, mixed, superactive, nonacid, hyperthermic Fluvaquentic Epiaquepts) was collected from the USDA-ARS Ardoyne Farm in Schriever, LA, USA (29 • 38 05 N, 90 • 50 12 W) from a depth of 0 to 15 cm. The soil was passed through a 2-mm sieve to remove roots and stones. Chemical characteristics are presented in Table  1 . Cowpea, sunn hemp, biomass sorghum, soybean, and sugarcane plants were grown in the greenhouse, cut at the soil surface, dried at 60 • C for 1 week, ground with a Wiley Mill No. 4 (Thomas Scientific, Swedesboro, NJ, USA) to pass a 1-mm screen, and stored in a desiccator. The entire plant was dried and ground except for sugarcane, where only the growth point and leaves were removed, dried, and ground to simulate post-harvest residue. Total C and N on each residue were determined by dry combustion using a 1112 elemental analyzer (ThermoFisher Scientific, Waltham, MA, USA). Fifty g of dry weight equivalent soil was added to 125-mL Erlenmeyer flasks. Soil was amended with water, resulting in a moisture content of 0.20 g water/g soil. A subset of the flasks received 0.125 g of each dried crop residue (equivalent to 0.25% by weight), which was mixed thoroughly with the soil using a spatula. Control flasks did not receive residue. The flasks were placed in 1 L canning jars that contained 25-mL of distilled water in the base of the jar. All flasks were sealed in separate jars with screw lids containing a rubber septa. The jars were divided into 3 groups with each group being incubated at either low (11 • C), ambient (25 • C), or high (32 • C) temperature for the duration of the experiment. Four replications of each crop residue and temperature combination were included. The incubation temperatures were chosen to represent typical field temperatures observed during winter, spring and fall, and summer of 2011-2015, respectively. Headspace carbon dioxide (CO 2 ) was measured 11 times over 162 d from each jar. At each sample time, jars were mixed with a 50-mL syringe prior to drawing a 0.5-mL sample with a 1.0-mL syringe that was injected onto a 2 m Porapak Q 80/100 mesh packed column fitted to a Shimadzu GC-8A gas chromatograph with a thermal conductivity detector (TCD)  
 The Alma field study was a randomized strip plot design where the whole plot variable was fallow or cowpea cover, and the strip plot variable was N fertilizer, either none or 112 kg N/ha, applied in the spring. The whole plot treatment was applied to half of the field, and multiple 3-row sets of each fertilizer treatment were applied to each portion of field previously cropped to cowpea. Four plots were randomly delineated within a fertilizer strip plot, moving down the length of the rows, to serve as replicates. Only plant cane data were collected. The data were analyzed by ANOVA using Proc Mixed in SAS version 9.0 (SAS Institute, Cary, NC, USA). The type of cover and fertilizer rate were treated as fixed effects, and replicate was treated as a random effect. Means of significantly different effects were separated using the PDIFF option with the SAXTON macro at the p < 0.10 level  C t = C 0 × exp (-k × t) (1) where C t = residue carbon remaining at time = t, C 0 is initial amount of residue carbon, k = the rate constant, and t = time in days. The equation was rearranged to Ln (C t /C 0 ) = -kt + b ( 2 ) where b = intercept  
 For the Alma Plantation cowpea cover crop study, the cover crop and N fertilizer two-way interaction affected stalk sucrose content and sucrose yield in the plant cane sugarcane crop (Table  2 ). The stalk sucrose concentration was greater where cowpea was grown when no N fertilizer was applied. On average the increase in stalk sucrose concentration was about 9% in the non-fertilized, cowpea treatment, when compared to the remaining treatments. In plots with no N fertilizer, sucrose yield (kg/ha) was greater where cowpea was grown, when compared to fallow, by about 5000 kg/ha. Both fertilized treatments produced similar cane yield, stalk sucrose, and sucrose yield. In the first sunn hemp cover crop study, the cover crop and N rate two-way interaction affected plant cane yield and sucrose yield, but not stalk sucrose concentration. (Table  3 ). No cover crop or N rate main effects were detected. Cane yield was greater where sunn hemp was grown and cane was fertilized with 45 kg N/ha, compared to the no N addition, by 21%. For sucrose yield, the sunn hemp + 45 kg N/ha treatment was greater than either the fallow + 90 kg N/ha or sunn hemp with 0 kg N/ha, by 20 and 27%, respectively (Table  3 ). The remainder of the treatments produced similar sucrose on a hectare basis. In the first ratoon crop, cane yield was affected by N rate, but not cover crop or the two-way interaction (data not shown). Increasing amounts of N fertilizer corresponded to greater first ratoon cane yields, with 68.9, 79.2, and 84.3 t/ha, resulting from 0, 45, and 90 kg N/ha, respectively. Fallowing (78.1 t/ha) and growing sunn hemp (76.8 t/ha) as a cover produced similar cane yields. For the first ratoon crop in the first sunn hemp study, stalk sucrose concentration varied by cover crop (data not shown). Cane grown in fallowed plots exhibited a higher stalk sucrose concentration, when compared to the sunn hemp cover crop plots. However, sucrose yield in the first ratoon crop was only affected by N rate, where supplemental N (either 45 or 90 kg/ha) improved yield over the 0 N rate. In the second sunn hemp study, plant cane yield was affected by the cover crop, but not N rate, nor the two-way interaction, and mean separation was performed across fertilizer rate (Table  4 ). Sunn hemp treatment produced lower cane yields, when compared to fallow, by about 12%. Neither stalk sucrose concentration nor sucrose yield was affected by either cover crop, N fertilizer, or the two-way interaction for this field study. The first ratoon crop yields in the second sunn hemp study were not evaluated due to the lack of statistical differences observed for stalk sucrose and sucrose yield in the plant cane crop. In the cowpea cover crop study at the Iberia Research Station, the cover crop treatment affected plant cane yield and sucrose yield, but not stalk sucrose concentration. The two-way interaction for each variable was not significant. Sugarcane yield for plots previously cropped to cowpea produced 10% more cane and 11% more sucrose, when compared to fallow plots (Table  5 ). The overall stalk sucrose concentration was 120.9 g/kg. The nitrogen rate main effect also affected plant cane and sucrose yield, but not stalk sucrose concentration (Table  5 ). When combined across cover crop treatments, application of either 45 or 90 kg N/ha, increased cane yield by 13 and 22%, respectively, when compared to the no N control, with means of 90.8, 98.1, and 80.6 t/ha, respectively (Table  5 ). Similarly, nitrogen application of 45 or 90 kg/ha improved sucrose yield across cover crop treatments by 16 and 23%, respectively, when compared to the no N control, with means of 11,130, 11,820, and 9620 kg/ha. Neither cover crop nor N application rate, or the two-way interaction, affected the first ratoon crop in the Iberia cowpea test (data not shown). Mean cane yield (95.3 t/ha), sucrose concentration (103.4 g/kg), and sucrose yield (9860 kg/ha) compared to the plant cane averages of 89.8 t/ha, 120.9 g/kg, and 10,850 kg/ha, respectively. The crop residue used for the laboratory study varied in its TC and TN content, and therefore C:N ratio. As expected, the legume residue exhibited lower C:N ratios (18-33) when compared to the monocot crops (45-148) (Table  6 ). The linear regression correlation coefficients were not consistent by temperature, or by crop residue. The poorer fit, compared to other correlations (e.g., r 2 > 0.80), can be attributed to fitting a single trendline to what appeared to be multiple (usually two) kinetic rates. However, when a sequential two pool kinetic model was used, calculated half-lives (DT 50 ) were very similar to a single pool kinetic model. This is possibly an indication that the initial rapid phase of decomposition represented a relatively small proportion of the total residue C decomposed over the course of the experiment. Thus, longer-term accuracy was not reasonably increased by using a more complex model. Incubation temperature resulted in basil soil respiration values of 0.42 (11 • C), 0.99 (25 • C), and 1.90 mg CO 2 -C/kg soil day -1 (32 • C) for the 166 day experiment (data not shown). Half-lives of crop residue at 11 • C were found to be > 157 days, further indicating slow soil microbial activity and processing at that temperature. At 25 • C, DT 50 were between 82-224% lower than those observed at 11 • C, and at 32 • C, DT 50 were between 11 higher and 203% lower than those observed at 25 • C (Table  6 ). At 11   
 The cultivation of soybean in rotation with sugarcane for use as a hay and/or green manure was a standard practice in Louisiana nearly a century ago, partially to take advantage of the N fixed by legume  2 3 4 5 ). The results reflect those reported where sugarcane cultivar 'HoCP 96-540' produced similar yields in either fallow, or fields where cowpea was incorporated into soil as a green manure 100 days after planting  Incorporation of legumes as green manures altered soil N status in sugarcane fields in Nigeria  There is ample work suggesting a soil biological component contributes to degraded soils under continual sugarcane. Less research describes the benefits of cover crops and green manure to long-term sugarcane soils. However, soil biological property changes resulting from break crops, pasturing, fallowing, or continual sugarcane production was reported for multiple locations in Australia  
 The growth of cowpea and sunn hemp cover crops during typical fallow period did not negatively affect subsequent sugarcane sucrose yields as determined by these field studies, at least not to levels that could not be mitigated by additions of mineral N. However, despite adding on average 250 kg Nha, the green manures did not consistently improve sugarcane yield either. This is possibly due to the 10-11-month time span between cover crop incorporation and plant cane grand growth that typically occurs between June and September. Based on laboratory incubation data, the average DT 50 for cowpea and sunn hemp would be approximately 3 months. Overall, using leguminous cover crops should be viewed as an important component of sustainable sugarcane practices. Agronomy 2020, 10, x FOR PEER REVIEW
Sugarcane (Saccharum officinarum) is an important cash crop of Pakistan and ranks fourth in acreage after wheat, cotton and rice. Intercropping is a tool to promote autumn planting giving 15-20 percent higher cane yield and 0.5 units more sugar recovery than spring planted cane. It is usually planted in spring i.e. in the months of February and March but now there is an increasing trend of its plantation in autumn season i.e. in the months of September/October which appears to be more profitable than spring crop. Autumn planted sugarcane occupies the land for more than a year and competes with Rabi crops and, therefore, area under autumn planted sugarcane can only be increased at the cost of other Rabi crops. This problem can only be overcome by intercropping some suitable Rabi crops in autumn planted sugarcane. Emergence of autumn planted sugarcane completes within 5-6 weeks of planting. Sugarcane after emergence remains dormant for the period of 3-4 months due to low temperature in winter and makes little use of both soil and water resources. In order to drive benefits from its slow growth and make better use of resources, intercropping of some short duration crops can be explored. Hussain et al. (2004) studied the feasibility of sugarcane intercropping with potato, gram, lentil, mustard and coriander. In terms of agronomic performance, sugarcane + potato and sugarcane + gram were feasible, although both crop combinations produced lower values for the different sugarcane yield parameters (number of tillers, number of millable canes, unit stalk weight, height of cane, brix and yield of cane) than the sole crop. Sugarcane + gram were the most profitable crop combination with the highest net benefit and benefit Awais Rasool et al. cost ratio, followed by sugarcane + potato and sugarcane +coriander. The crop combinations sugarcane + mustard and sugarcane + lentil were not profitable because they produced less net benefit than sole sugarcane.  
 The experiment was carried out at National Agricultural Research Center, Islamabad during 2004-05. The experiment was conducted in randomized complete block design (RCBD) with three replications. The treatments included in the study were: T1= cane alone, T2= cane + wheat, T3= cane + lentil, T4= cane + gram. Variety RB-72-454 was planted in 1st week of September using a seed rate of 55, 000 double budded setts ha-1... Fertilizer was applied @ 250-140-150 NPK kg ha-1. The plot size of each experimental unit was 8 m x 4.8 m consisting of four rows. The wheat variety Wafaq-2001, lentil variety Markaz and gram variety Dasht were used in the study. Two rows of each of wheat, lentil and gram were seeded in between cane rows in the month of October. Wheat, lentil and gram were harvested during the months of April-May and data for crop yield was recorded. Observations on number of millable canes, stripped cane yield, cane length, cane diameter and brix (%) of sugarcane were recorded at harvest during 2nd week of December, 2005. All other agronomic practices were kept uniform throughout the study period. Data collected were analyzed statistically using analysis of variance at 5% level of probability (Steel and Torrie, 1984). 
 
 
 The number of canes was significantly affected by different intercrops. Cane alone produced significantly more number of canes (118, 000 ha -1 ) than cane intercropped with wheat, lentil and gram. The intercrops adversely affected the cane formation. Similar results have been previously reported by  
 Planting of sugarcane alone resulted in significantly higher cane yield (130.5 ha -1 ) followed by cane inter cropped with gram (111.8 t ha -1 ). Cane yields in case of cane intercropped with wheat, lentil and gram were statistically at par with each other. The decrease in cane yield by intercropping of Awais Rasool et al. wheat, lentil and gram was 19.2%, 18.6% and 14.3%, respectively. This decrease in yield was due to competition of intercrops with cane for growth resources, which affected cane formation and growth. These results are in line with  
 The results indicated that intercropping of wheat, lentil, and gram did not affect cane length. However, longer canes were observed when cane was planted alone (248 cm) and shorter canes were found when intercropping was done with lentil (222 cm).   
 Intercropping of wheat, lentil and gram did not significantly affect cane brix. Apparently cane alone resulted in lower brix content as compared to intercrops. Similarly  
 The economics of different intercropping combinations was worked out, keeping in view the prevailing market prices of the produce (Table -2). The rates of sugarcane, wheat, lentil and gram were Rs. 1200/ton, Rs. 10375/ton, 40625/ton and 32000/ton, respectively. Results indicated that none of intercropping combination was economically superior to cane alone. Cane alone gave maximum gross income (Rs.156641), whereas, cane intercropped with wheat gave lowest gross income (Rs.138889). However, cane intercropped with lentil gave better return than other intercropping combinations.   Pakistan Sugar Journal April-June 2011 Vol. 26 No.2
Sugarcane (Saccharum officinarum L.) is the main source of revenue in Pakistan after cotton and rice. It is a source of providing raw material to many allied industries and employment  Triple row planting may be suitable and efficient planting system in saving water and reduce lodging due to easiness in inter-cultural practice and earthing-up operations  Intercropping has been known a tremendous practice to increase stripped cane yield, maximum net returns, and better resources utilization and fulfill the demand of diversified farms. The gross monetary returns have been recognized the highest from intercropping cane with potato and lowest from pure cane  There are not much reported studies on the different intercrops in sugarcane growing areas in Pakistan. The present study was conducted with the following objective: • To explore the yield feasibility of sugarcane yield under different intercrops and its economics. 
 
 The study regarding intercropping in spring planted sugarcane was conducted for two year during 2011-12 and 2012-13 on a loam soil at research area University College of Agriculture, University of Sargodha (32˚04'N, 72˚67'E), Pakistan. The climate of the region is subtropical semi-arid with annual average rainfall of 400 ± 5 mm, and more than 70% of the rainfall occurs during June-September (Source: Agro-Metrological Lab, University of Sargodha). Mean monthly minimum temperature is 10˚C in January and maximum temperature is 40˚C in July. The soil is the Hafizabad series (fine-silty, mixed, hyperthermic typic calciargids) and the soil texture is loam and heavy loam  
 The experiment was laid out according to triplicate randomized complete block design using three replications. Net plot size was 4.2 m × 8.0 m for 120 cm spaced strips. The treatments comprised; sole sugarcane, SC + Wheat, SC + Gram, SC + Soybean and SC + Potato (within 120 cm apart). Trenches were made with the help of tractor drawn ridger. 
 Sugarcane variety HSF-240 with seed rate of 75,000 double budded setts per hectare was sown in September during 2011-12 and 2012-13. Fertilizer was applied at the rate of 175, 115 and 115 kg•NPK•ha -1 . 
 Data were analyzed statistically using SAS  
 
 Sole SC and different intercrops in SC had significantly effect on all yield parameters during both the year 2011-12 and 2012-13 (Table  1 ). In 2011-12, sole SC had significantly 8% higher millable cane (14.3 m -2 ) compared than SC + Potato while in case of intercrops, SC + Gram gave significantly 3%, 4%, and 5% higher millable cane than SC + Wheat, SC + Soybean and SC + Potato. In second year 2012-13 same trend was observed while lower number of millable cane (12.9 m -2 ) was recorded in SC + Soybean than other intercrops. Sole SC produced significantly 6% higher cane diameter than SC + Wheat. However, SC + Potato had significantly higher cane diameter than SC + Gram, SC + Soybean and SC + Wheat in 2011-12. In second year same trend was noted while cane stem diameter of SC + Potato and SC + Soybean was statistically at par with each other. In both the years of study, significantly higher unstriped cane yield (121.8 t•ha -1 and 120.2 t•ha -1 ) was noted in sole SC compared than SC + Wheat (113.6 t•ha -1 and 112.8 t•ha -1 ). Among intercrops treatment of 2011-12, SC + Gram had 1%, 2% and 4% higher than SC + Potato, SC + Soybean and SC + Wheat. In 2012-13, unstripped cane yield of intercrops SC + Gram had 1%, 2% and 4% higher than SC + Potato, SC + Soybean and SC + Wheat. During both the year of study significantly higher stripped cane yield (102.43 t•ha -1 and 100.9 t•ha -1 ) was noted in Sole SC and significantly lower stripped cane yield (95.30 t•ha -1 ) in SC + Gram during first year while SC + Wheat and SC + Soybean in second year. During 2012-13, stripped cane yield of Sole SC was statistically at par with SC + Potato. In first year of study, SC + Gram produced significantly 2%, 3% and 4% higher stripped cane yield than SC + Potato, SC + Soybean and SC + Wheat. During 2011-12 and 2012-13, land equivalent ratio (LER) of Sole SC and different intercrops in SC are presented in Table  1 . However, LER of different intercrops were in range between 1.53 and 1.61 during study period. In other words, the intercrops yield advantages varied from 53% to 61% respectively. It could be inferred, that advantage due to intercrops per hectare yields were equal to sole SC yields obtained from 1.53 to 1.61 hectares. The highest LER of 1.61 was recorded for SC + Wheat intercrop geometry during 2011-12 and 2012-13. The lowest LER of 1.53 and 1.54 was observed in SC + Potato intercrop treatment in both the growing season. All yield parameters number of millable cane, cane diameter, unstripped and striped cane yield were noted significantly higher in sole SC compared than different intercrops in SC. Significantly higher yield attributes in sole SC was due to availability of sufficient soil nutrients and there was no crop competition  
 The economic benefits got from different intercrops SC planting was compared with the sole SC (Table  2 ). The data presented in Table  2  revealed that all the intercrop treatments increased the net return from sole SC. The highest net return (Rs. 450244 ha -1 and Rs. 486429 ha -1 ) was obtained from SC + Potato during 2011-12 and 2012-13. The next highest net return (Rs. 433763 ha -1 and Rs. 415280 ha -1 ) and (Rs. 431924 ha -1 and Rs. 399735 ha -1 ) were given by the intercrops of SC + Wheat and SC + Gram during both the years, respectively. In 2011-12 and 2012-13, the lowest net return (Rs. 365121 ha -1 and Rs. 333797 ha -1 ) was noted at sole SC. During 2011-12 and 2012-13, maximum benefit cost ratio (5.40 and 5.02) was noted at sole SC while minimum benefit cost ratio in SC + Soybean (5.17 and 4.90) was observed. The sole SC produced 2% -4% greater BCR than different intercrops. The net return from different treatments was calculated by subtracting the total cost of production for each treatment from its gross income. Higher values of net returns/net income was obtained from different intercrops  than sole SC. Benefit cost ratio is another important economic parameter in which farmers are interested to see the gain in net returns with a given increase in total costs. Our findings supported the results of  
 Sugarcane is an important cash crop of Pakistan. It has pivotal role in the growth of sugar industry, uplifting the socio-economic conditions of farmers, and contributing in the economic development. Intercropping has been recognized an excellent and alternative way to future crop production under threat of land, population and high monetary returns. The present study revealed that the sole SC gave more than 6% and 13% higher stripped cane yield and CGR than all intercrop treatments. Higher values of LER were noted in SC + Wheat than other treatments. Maximum net returns was obtained in SC + Potato than other intercrops and sole SC while maximum BCR was noted in sole SC. Based on economics, it is recommended that resource poor farmers grow only sole sugarcane while resource rich farmers prefer to grow SC + Potato due to high returns.
Autumn planted sugarcane is more suitable for growing intercrops than spring sugarcane as its growth slows down because of low temperature from November to February. During these months the conditions are favourable for growth of short duration rabi crops, which can be grown successfully in between the inter row spaces of sugarcane. Though intercropping of different crops in autumn sugarcane has been reported both in Punjab (Kanwar et al., 1987; Singh & Mehra,  1995; Singh et al., 1999) and other parts of country  Field experiments were carried out consecutively for three years  1 ) were tested in RBD with four replications. The soil of experimental site during all the three years was sandy loam in texture, alkaline in reaction and was low in available nitrogen and m e d i u m in available phosphorus and available potassium. Sugarcane cultivar CoJ 64 was planted in the first week of October in rows 90 cm apart in all the three years. As per treatment two rows of peas, palak, Corresponding author : L.K. Saini radish and turnip were sown with variety Bonneville, Pb. Selection, Pb. Safed and L-l respectively in between two rows of sugarcane. The seed rate used was 55 and 10 kg/ha for pea, radish and 6 kg/ha each for palak and turnip respectively. The main sugarcane crop was supplied with recommended dose of fertilizers i.e. 225 kg N/ha only. P and K were not applied as soil was sufficient in these two nutrients. The intercrops were provided with fertilization based on their population in comparison to their respective pure crop, viz. Pea was supplied with 35 kg N and 40 kg P205, radish and turnip each with 62.5 kg N and 30 kg P205 and palak with 14 kg N and 14 kg P2Os/ha. All other cultural practices for raising the crops were carried out as per recommended package of practices. The main crop of sugarcane was harvested in the month of November of next year, where as peas, radish and turnip was harvested in the month of January and palak in the month of March. To evaluate the profitability of intercropping system, the economics was worked out from the gross return calculated by taking normal market prices of the produce as reported in Table  3  and the total expenditure. The results of yield contributing factors presented in table 1 revealed that different intercropping systems significantly influenced the tillers and millable canes. The highest number of tillers were recorded in sugarcane alone followed closely by sugarcane intercropped with peas. The other intercrops reduced the number of tillers and minimum were recorded with Figures in bracket indicate the yield of intercrop in q/ha intercropping of turnip. The number of millable canes followed a pattern almost similar to number of tillers except that these were lowest with the intercropping of palak. The height of cane, however, was not influenced significantly by any of the intercrop. Though it was numerically slightly higher with intercropping of peas (Table  2 ). There was variation in cane yield due to intercropping of different vegetable crops in different years. In the first year the intercropping of palak and radish decreased the cane yield to a significant level. In the second and third year though there was no significant reduction in cane yield due to different intercrops, yet the maximum decrease in cane yield was observed due to intercropping of the turnip followed by the palak. Averaged over the three years, the intercropping of peas did not effect the cane yield adversely rather there was slight improvement over the pure cane. The low competition with main crop and its nitrogen fixing capacity could be the factor responsible for this behavior. The reduction in cane yield due to the radish and turnip was 5.0 and 7.4% over the pure cane. The maximum reduction in the cane yield to the tune of 11.5% over the pure cane was due to the palak intercrop, which might be due to the late vacation of field under this intercrop as two cuttings were taken. Based on the three years data the cane equivalent yield for different intercropping system was calculated by taking into consideration the price of the produce of the intercrops as given in Table  3  and their conversion in to cane yield. This data presented in table 3 revealed that highest mean cane equivalent yield of 103.3 t/ha was recorded in case of cane + peas which was 37.5% higher over the pure cane. This was 29.12 and 16.1% higher in case of radish and turnip intercrops respectively. The cane equivalent yield with palak intercrop was even higher than radish and turnip, due to higher value of it's produce though it had decreased the cane yield to the maximum level. A perusal of the data on gross profit, presented in Table  3  reveal that gross profit was higher in all the intercropping system than pure cane. However accounting the cost incurred for raising pure crop of sugarcane and that of intercrops revealed that intercropping of peas in autumn sugarcane gave highest net returns of Rs. 26785/ha where as pure cane accounted for Rs. 17848/ha. Hence an additional income of Rs. 8937/ha was obtained due to peas intercropping. The additional profit of Rs. 8556/ha and 6646/ha was observed due to intercropping of Radish and Palak. The intercropping of turnip was not at all profitable rather there was a loss of Rs. 831/ha. These research results indicate that intercropping of peas radish and palak in autumn sugarcane is profitable and hence could be carried out in northern region of India to increase per unit profitability. However, further additional work is needed to determine their optimum nutrient requirements and effective herbicidal weed control.
Sugarcane (Saccharum spp.) is an important industrial crop, belonging to the family Poaceae and Andropogoneae tribe, which is distributed widely in all tropical and subtropical regions of the world  Intercropping is a farming practice involving two or more crops growing together and coexisting on the same site for a time  Peanut (Arachis hypogaea L.) is an important legume providing edible proteins and N 2 fixation, which are usually utilized as cover crop, intercropped with cereals and other staple foods. Previous studies  
 
 The experiment was conducted in 2013 and 2014 at Zengcheng Experimental Station (23814'N, 113838'E) of South China Agricultural University, Guangzhou City, Guangdong Province, China, where it has tropical ocean monsoon climate with long time summer and abundant rainfall. The annual average temperature is 21.9 °C, and annual rainfall and evaporation are 1696 and 1591 mm, respectively. The soil type is classified as latosolic red soil. Five soil samples were collected from different parts of the experimental field and bulked into a composite sample and used for the determination of the chemical and physical properties of the soil before planting. The values of soil pH and organic carbon (C) were 5.67 and 14.51 g kg -1 soil, and soil total nitrogen (N), available phosphorus (P) and available potassium (K) averaged 1.07, 0.13 and 0.22 g kg -1 soil, respectively. In March 2013 and 2014, sugarcane cultivar (Saccharum officinarum L. Panyu chewing cane) was planted in a plot with 5 m long and 3 m apart. Two rows of peanut cultivar (Arachis hypogaea L. Yueyou 7) were sown between 1 m of conventional row spacing of sugarcane (Fig.  1 ). Two silicon does (0 and 60 kg ha -1 , the source of silicon: Ca-Mg silicate) was applied in the furrow before planting sugarcane. All of the treatments were adjusted to receive the same quantities of calcium (Ca) and magnesium (Mg) by applying lime and/or magnesium chloride (MgCl 2 ) as necessary. There were four replications of the cultivars arranged in a randomized complete block design. Fertilizers were soil-applied prior to planting at rates of 40 kg ha -1 of N, 100 kg ha -1 of P 2 O 5 and 100 kg ha -1 of K 2 O (10-25-25). Before grand growth phase, surface fertilization with N (100 kg ha -1 of N; ammonium sulfate) and K (60 kg ha -1 of K 2 O; KCl) was performed, according to  
 Soil samples were collected before crops planting (in February), after peanut harvesting (in July) and after sugarcane harvesting (in December) corresponding to approximately 0, 5, and 10 months after planting, respectively. Ten soil (0-15 cm) cores (U = 2.54 cm) were randomly collected within each of the 36 field plots and composited. The samples were placed in polythene papers, transported to the laboratory for analysis. In the laboratory, the soil samples were dried, ground and sieved through a 1-mm sieve prior to analysis.  
 Soil organic carbon (SOC) content was measured with the wet digestion method  
 At harvest, plant height, stalk diameter, stalk fresh weight, cane yield, and quality parameters were determined. Stalk fresh weights were determined by cutting and weighing 20 stalks from 2 of the middle 4 rows of each plot (40 stalks total) in December 2013 and 2014. The weight of each harvested plot was used to calculate cane yield (10 4 kg cane ha -1 ). A random sample of billets (about 10 kg) was collected from each plot during harvest. The billets were chipped and shredded using a pre-breaker, and juice was expressed from a 1-kg subsample of the chipped stalks by pressing at 21 MPa for 2 min. The remaining fiber cake was weighed, dried at 66 °C for 72 h in a forced-air oven and reweighed to determine the fiber content  
 All data collected were analyzed using SPSS (version 20.0, IBM corp., USA). Two-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) was used to test for significant differences among intercropping, Si application and their interactions using a Tukey's post hoc analysis with an alpha value of 0.05. Graphs were plotted using GraphPad Prism (version 5.0.1, GraphPad Software Inc., San Diego, CA). 
 Average Monthly Precipitations and Temperature The monthly average temperatures and precipitation for both years along with monthly 5-year average are shown (Figs.  2, 3 ). Meanwhile, the average monthly temperatures for both 2013 and 2014 were fairly uniform, and fairly similar to 5-year averages, but the average amount monthly precipitation of 2 years was substantially different from the 5-year average and almost 0 mm at January and October. In 2013, compared with the average, the precipitation was much higher which occurred from March until September as well as during harvesting in December. This high rainfall could potentially lead to higher accumulation of biomass. In 2014, the higher-than-average precipitation occurred from March until August, but the precipitation was much lower than average from September to October (nearly 0 mm).  
 The effect of intercropping and Si application on sugarcane yield varied as shown in Table  1 . In terms of ANOVA result for plant height, stalk diameter, stalk fresh weight and yield of sugarcane, significant changes were observed on pattern (sugarcane monoculture and sugarcane-peanut intercropping) and Si in 2013, and between pattern, Si and interaction in 2014, except the interaction of plant height. Compared to sugarcane monoculture, the plant height, stalk diameter, stalk fresh weight and yield were significantly enhanced by Si application and intercropping ? Si treatments in 2 years, and significantly increased by intercropping only in 2014 (except for plant height). The yield was much higher with Si treatment in 2013 than monoculture, which was related to reduce lodging by Si application  The previous studies have reported that the intercropping with leguminous crops can achieve an enhanced biomass and yield compared with monoculture  
 Experiment had a significant effect on sugarcane quality (Fig.  4 ). Compared with monoculture, the content of brix, pol, sucrose and purity were significantly increased, but the content of reducing sugar with intercropping, Si application and intercropping ? Si. The same trend was apparent on brix and sucrose from seven generations of sugarcane  
 Soil organic carbon (SOC), P, and K were significantly positively correlated with intercropping in the sugarcane harvest time (Fig.  5 ). Compared with monoculture, the content of SOC was increased with Si application, intercropping and intercropping ? Si in 2013 and 2014.  
 The improved SOC and P of soil nutrients enhanced the yield and brix and sucrose of sugarcane by using intercropping with peanut and Si application. The highest sucrose content observed was much lower than that achieved in more tropical environments.
Sugarcane is the most useful sugar-producing grass in the world. China is the third largest sugarcane producer; however, to maintain high production is a challenging task for Chinese agriculture system. Therefore, breeders introduce several high yield-producing varieties every year. Afterwards, several studies indicated that low sugarcane yield is still a major problem due to several associate factors  Previous findings target on the physical and chemical properties of soils, as influenced by agricultural practices, although fewer growers know about the allied alterations in the soil's biological properties  
 
 A sugarcane variety (GT 31) was obtained from a breeding unit of the Sugarcane Research Institute, Guangxi Academy of Agricultural Sciences (GXAAS), Nanning. General characters of this variety were middle mature, high yield potential, and lodging resistance. Therefore, this variety was frequently used in sugarcane areas where soil fertility is above average in the central and southern parts of Guangxi. Furthermore, peanut (GH 771) and soybean (GC 8) seeds were taken from the Cash Crop Research Institute, GXAAS, Nanning, Guangxi, China. 
 Two field experiments were carried out during March 2014 to April 2015: location 1: experimental field of the Sugarcane Research Institute, GXAAS/Sugarcane Research Center (SRC), Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences (CAAS), Xixiangtang District, Nanning (N 22°51′ 3.95″, E 108°14′ 46.37″), and location 2: experimental field of Dingdang Experiment Station, Sugarcane Research Institute, GXAAS/ SRC, CAAS, Dingdang town, Long'an County, Nanning (N 23°07′ 35.82″, E 107°57′ 57.78″) in Guangxi, China. The weather is hot in summer and cold in winter and information about temperature/rain precipitation during the experiment is given in the supplementary (Fig.  S1 , Electronic supplementary material). Red loamy lateritic red earth (latosol) was used in this study. Before planting, the soil was fertilized with compound fertilizer (375 kg ha -1 ) fused with calcium magnesium phosphate (75 kg ha -1 : P 2 O 5 18%), potassium chloride (150 kg ha -1 : K 2 O 60%), and urea (150 kg ha -1 : N 46%). The topsoil of location 1 had the following characteristics: soil pH 5.85, organic matter (OM) 11.97 g kg -1 , total N 0.94 g kg -1 , total P 0.53 g kg -1 , total K 8.99 g kg -1 , NH 4 + -N 2.68 mg kg -1 , NO 3 --N 1.39 mg kg -1 , available P 18.02 mg kg -1 , and exchangeable K 116.52 g kg -1 , and location 2 had soil pH 5.17, OM 29.23 g kg -1 , total N 1.45 g kg -1 , total P 1.08 g kg -1 , total K 4.97 g kg -1 , NH 4 + -N 9.05 mg kg -1 , NO 3 --N 4.39 mg kg -1 , available P 33.36 mg kg -1 , and exchangeable K 70.24 g kg -1 , respectively. A randomized design was used for three treatments with three replications: sugarcane monoculture (M), sugarcane intercropped with peanut (SP), and sugarcane intercropped with soybean (SS) (Fig.  1 ). Sugarcane crop plantation was performed manually into the soil on 20 March 2014 and peanut/soybean on 22 March 2014 at location 1 and on 8 April 2014 (sugarcane) and 10 April 2014 (peanut/soybean) at location 2. Each field plot had five rows; 5 m long and 1.2 m row spacing (Fig.  1 ). For the sugarcane, 10.5 × 10 4 buds ha -1 and soybean and peanut seeds were sown 0.6 m distance of sugarcane raw (Fig.  1 ). Furthermore, granular carbofuran 3% was applied at the rate of 45 kg ha -1 during planting to control insects. Consequently, after planting and watering, the soil surface was treated with atrazine to control weed and followed by plastic film mulching in the furrow. 
 Soil and plant samples were taken at different growth stages of sugarcane: tillering stage (S1), elongation stage (S2), and maturation stage (S3), respectively. For rhizosphere soils of each treatment, nine plants from each plot were excavated carefully and divided into three groups (containing three plants each) as three replicates. After shaking off the loosely adhering soils, the tightly adhering soil (rhizosphere soil) was collected and passed through a 2-mm sieve and stored at -20 °C for analysis. Moreover, simultaneously, plant root, stem, and leaf samples were taken and stored at 4 °C for the analysis of N content, total moisture, and fresh biomass. Two crops peanut and soybean pods were harvested manually after 120 days of planting date. All sugarcane plants were harvested manually at the end of the experiment. For measuring total crop biomass, three sugarcane plants were measured and sugarcane juice qualities were tested in the Sugarcane Research Institute, GXAAS/SRC, CAAS, Nanning, Guangxi, China. 
 Soil chemical analysis and assays of enzymes like urease and nitrite reductase and N content of sugarcane plant parts (roots, stems, and leaves) were carried out at the soil analysis laboratory, Guangxi University, Nanning, Guangxi, China. Soil pH (soil:water = 1:1) was analyzed by a pH meter and soil organic carbon was assessed by dichromate oxidation  
 Rhizosphere and root endophytic bacteria were isolated from root segments collected at a depth of 5 to 15 cm from the stem base. Rhizosphere bacteria were isolated by vigorously shaking 1 g of root segments in 10 ml of PBS buffer [140 mM NaCl, 2.5 mM KCl, 10 mM Na 2 HPO 4 , 1.5 mM KH 2 PO 4 (pH 7.4)] for 1 h to eliminate the root-adhering soil. For the isolation of root endophytes, the washed root segments were surface sterilized by sequential washing in 70% ethanol for 1 min, sodium hypochlorite (2%, vol/vol) for 3 min, and 70% ethanol for 30 s and two rinses with ample sterilized distilled water and dried on sterile filter paper. The surfacesterilized root segments were ground in a mortar with a pestle by using 1 ml of PBS buffer. Consecutively, stem endophytic bacteria were isolated. Segments of 5 cm were washed with autoclaved distilled water and surface sterilized as described for the roots. Afterwards, the epidermis was aseptically removed and the plant extract was collected from the stem section by centrifugation at 3000×g for 10 min  
 Genomic DNA was extracted  
 Purified PCR products were sequenced at Sangon Biotech Co. Ltd. (Shanghai, China) using an ABI 3730 automated DNA sequencer, and the obtained sequences of isolates were aligned and classified with SINA 1.2.11 using the small subunit (SSU) of bacterial sequences in SILVA 115NR99  
 Nitrogen fixation ability of the nifH gene-amplified isolates was determined in a nitrogen-free medium by the acetylene reduction assay  
 All N-fixing bacteria were tested in vitro for their multiple PGP traits. The method of  
 Data management and statistical analyses were performed using SPSS 16 software (SPSS, Chicago, IL, USA). Experimental data were analyzed using standard analysis of ANOVA followed by Fisher's least significant difference test (LSD) at a significance level of p < 0.05, and multivariate analysis of variance (MANOVA) was used to detect the effects of locations, growth stages, and cropping systems on soil chemical and biological properties. The correlation coefficient was calculated to discover the relationship between microbial community and plant and soil variables by using Past3 software  
 
 As shown in Table  1 , there were no significant differences in the physical parameter of sugarcane like stalk height, diameter, number of internodes, and total cane yield under the three cultivation systems. Between two locations, higher yield was recovered at location 2 as compared to location 1. However, intercrops with soybean showed minor yield enhancement by 1.09% at location 1 and 2.69% at location 2. Similar to this, 15 to 16% enhancement in stalk diameter and 9 to 10% enhancement in internode number resulted with intercrops from location 2 (Table  1 ). Moreover, quality indices of sugarcane juice like sucrose content, fiber (%) and juice (%) in cane, sugar brix, sugar content in the juice, gravity, sugar purity, reducing sugar (%), apparent purity, and sugar pol (%) also did not show any significant effect by the cropping system (Table  S1 , Electronic supplementary material). 
 Generally, the soil chemical property data showed that soil pH varied among the three cultivation systems. The average pH ranged from 5.25 to 6.25 at location 1 and from 4.46 to 5.64 at location 2, and it was higher in SS during plant elongation at location 1. Similarly, soil OM, total N, total K, N-NH 4 , N-NO 3 , and available P also showed variability among the cultivation systems, and overall, intercropping practices showed a positive influence on the soil properties compared to M (Table  S2 , Electronic supplementary material). In contrast, total soil phosphorus and available K were negatively influenced by intercropping practices (Table  S2 , Electronic supplementary material). Moreover, urease activity ranged from 1.60 to 3.21 mg kg -1 soil (3 h) -1 at location 1 and from 2.88 to 7.94 mg kg -1 soil (3 h) -1 at location 2 (Fig.  2a ). The highest urease activity resulted with SP and M at location 2 in the elongation stage than the other two stages (Fig.  2a ). Soil samples at the maturation stage showed significantly less urease activity than those at tillering and elongation stages (Fig.  2a ). For nitrite reductase activity, soil samples from location 1 showed a significant (p < 0.05) influence under different growth stages. The tillering stage showed higher activity, followed by the maturation and elongation stages. In both locations, zero time showed higher activity, and it decreased drastically at the elongation stage (Fig.  2b ). There was no significant difference in cultivation between the elongation and maturation stages, but SP showed a significant difference compared to M at the tillering stage at location 1 (Fig.  2b ). Nitrogenase enzyme activity ranged from 10.15 to 14.87 μmol C 2 H 2 g -1 soil h -1 at location 1 and from 6.89 to 10.12 μmol C 2 H 2 g -1 soil h -1 at location 2 (Fig.  2c ). The SP and SS treatments showed higher activity (p < 0.05) at the tillering and maturation stages at location 2, and treatment M showed lower activity than the other treatments (Fig.  2c ). Additionally, total microbial activity was assessed via the dehydrogenase enzyme. The SP and SS treatments exhibited higher activity at the maturation stage at both locations. Among all the treatments, SP showed higher activity than the other treatments at all growth stages at location 2 (Fig.  2d ). For plant N content, a higher percentage of N was recovered from intercropped (SS and SP) stem and leaf samples at the maturation stage than that at the other two stages. The SS and SP treatments showed higher fresh weights of stems and leaves at the different growth stages at both locations. The total moisture of the different plant parts was reduced at the elongation and maturation stages at both locations (Table  S3 , Electronic supplementary material). To understand the total abundance of N-fixing bacteria in the rhizosphere and plants, we used two nitrogen-free media. The maximum CFU resulted in the soil from location 1 at the tillering stage, followed by the maturation stage, but the microbial population showed a dramatic reduction at the elongation stage at both locations. The SP and SS rhizosphere samples had a higher population than M samples. For the plant-associated microbial population, the roots and stems showed maximum CFU at the tillering stage compared to the elongation and maturation stages. A higher N-fixing population in the leaf samples resulted from SS under the different growth stages at both locations (Table  S4 , Electronic supplementary material). To determine the interaction effects of all variables (two locations, three growth stages, and three cultivation systems), we performed a three-way multivariate analysis (MANOVA). Factorial ANOVA showed that both the location and growth stage had a significant effect on the soil chemical properties and plant parameters, except for stem and leaf N and total moisture in the roots (Table  2 ). Furthermore, the cultivation system did not have a significant effect on total K, available P, and available NH 4 + -N among all soil chemical properties. Among the plant parameters, only the fresh weight of the roots and leaves showed a significant effect (Table  2 ). The interaction between location and growth stage also had a significant effect on the soil properties, except for available P (F value, 0.96), root and stem total N %, and the fresh weight of stem and leaves. Conversely, the location and cultivation system (L × C) and the growth stage and cultivation system (G × C) showed significant interaction effects for only available K and root fresh weight among all the soil chemical properties and plant parameters. Moreover, there was a significant interaction effect of location, growth stage, and cropping system for only total P (F value, 2.89), available K (F value, 6.12), and leaf fresh weight (F value, 3.96) (Table  2 ). Additionally, the factorial ANOVA results for the soil enzymes and N-fixing bacterial populations of the soil and different plant parts showed a significant effect of location and growth stage. The cultivation system also had a significant effect on all of these parameters, except for two soil enzymes (urease and nitrite reductase). The location and growth stage (L × S) interaction did not show a significant effect on the nitrogenase enzyme and N-fixing bacterial population in sugarcane leaves (Table  3 ). The significant interaction of location and cropping system had higher F values for the dehydrogenase enzyme and total bacterial and N-fixing bacterial populations in the soil and leaves (Table  3 ). A growth stage and cropping system (S × C) interaction also had a significant effect on the dehydrogenase enzyme and total bacterial population of all plant parts and on the N-fixing bacterial population of all samples except stems. Moreover, the interaction effect of all three variables (L × S × C) was significant for the dehydrogenase enzyme (F 2.73) and the total bacterial population in the roots and leaves and N-fixing bacterial population in all samples (Table  3 ). 
 A total of 293 dominant bacterial candidates were screened by nifH gene PCR. Across the cultivation system, the percentage of nifH gene-positive bacteria found was 16% with M, 23% with SP, and 29% with SS. Finally, 64 bacteria were selected for further analysis (Fig.  S2 , Electronic supplementary material). Moreover, 16S rRNA gene sequencing results suggested that all selected bacteria belonged to five taxonomic groups. Major taxa were γ-Proteobacteria (28%), Actinomycetes (28%), and Firmicutes (25%), followed by β-Proteobacteria (11%) and α-Proteobacteria (8%), respectively (Fig.  3 ). Partial 16S rRNA gene sequences of all isolates were submitted to NCBI     S5 ). Likewise, SS showed the higher value of Shannon's diversity index and species richness, whereas the lowest value was recorded with M, and similar trends also followed by other diversity indices such as Simpson's index, Chao-1, evenness, Brillouin, Menhinick, and Margalef (Table  4 ). Similarly, SS showed a higher distribution of OTUs and it was followed by SP. Contrary to this, M showed the least distribution of OTUs (Fig.  4a ). Moreover, to extract the unique and the overlapped species distribution among cropping systems, a Venn diagram was plotted based on OTUs. Results showed that a total of 35 OTUs recovered from both the locations and 32.4% unique OTUs recovered with SP and 26.5% unique OTUs resulted with SS. However, M showed only 11.8% unique OTUs (Fig.  4b ) and 5.9% overlapped OTUs recovered in the three cropping systems and 14.7% OTUs were overlapped between M and SS (Fig.  4b ). Regarding OTU distribution based on location, 42.9% unique OTUs were observed in location 2 and 34.3% in location 1, and only 22.8% OTUs M monoculture, SP sugarcane/peanut intercropping, SS sugarcane/ soybean intercropping Fig.  3  Phylogenetic tree was constructed using the Bneighbor-joiningâ lgorithm, based on a bootstrap analysis of 10,000 replicates by the software Mega X  S3a , Electronic supplementary material). Moreover, 51.4% unique OTUs recovered in the rhizosphere and 28.6% recovered in the endosphere and 20% OTUs overlapped between the rhizosphere and plant (Fig.  S3b , Electronic supplementary material). 
 The nitrogen fixation capacity of all the selected bacteria was assessed via an acetylene reductase assay. The nitrogenase activity varied from 12.70 to 41.36 μmol C 2 H 2 g -1 soil h -1 in all diazotrophs, and the isolates S1Sr21 showed maximum nitrogenase activity compared to others. Additionally, among all the selected isolates, 58% utilized ACC as their sole carbon source, and D1SS235 showed maximum ACC deaminase activity (Table  5 ). Furthermore, we examined all bacteria for plant growth-promoting activities. In the case of indole acetic acid production, 94% showed IAA production with tryptophan, and 80% showed IAA production without tryptophan. Additionally, 77% of diazotrophs showed siderophore production, and only 27% showed phosphate solubilization activity (Table  5 ). 
 Among all the soil variables, soil pH was strongly (p = 0.01) correlated with total K, dehydrogenase, and nitrogenase. Soil OM, P, and N were strongly (p < 0.001 and < 0.01) correlated with each other and with N-NO 3 , available K, and urease (Table  S6 ). In contrast, soil organic matter, P, and N were negatively correlated with total K, nitrite reductase, and nitrogenase. Total soil K also showed a strong correlation with nitrite reductase (p < 0.001), dehydrogenase (p = 0.06), and nitrogenase (p < 0.001), whereas a strong negative correlation was found among N-NO 3 , available P-K, and urease. Moreover, N-NO 3 , N-NH 4 , and available P-K were positively correlated with each other and negatively correlated with the soil enzymes (Table  S6 , Electronic supplementary material) . The correlation analysis between soil variables and plant variables showed that sugarcane yield was positively correlated (p < 0.01) with OM, total N-P, N-NO 3 , available P-K, and urease and negatively correlated with total K, nitrite reductase, and nitrogenase (Table  6 ). Similarly, sugarcane fresh weight showed a strong positive correlation (p < 0.05) with OM, total N, N-NO 3 , and available P. A positive correlation (p = 0.05) was also found between plant N content and N-NH 4 (Table  6 ). The correlation analysis between the soil variables, plant variables, and microbial community showed that the entophytic bacterial population was positively (p < 0.05) correlated with pH, total K, nitrite reductase, and urease (Table  6 ). In contrast, a strong negative correlation (p < 0.05) was found with total P and urease. A positive correlation was also found between the rhizospheric population and plant N content (p = 0.05). Among the bacterial taxa, α-Proteobacteria showed a strong correlation with N-NH 4 (p = 0.03) and sugarcane fresh weight (p = 0.03). Additionally, γ-Proteobacteria had a weak positive correlation with OM (p = 0.09), urease (p = 0.08), and sugarcane yield (p = 0.07) and a weak negative correlation with total K (p = 0.07), dehydrogenase (p = 0.08), and nitrogenase (p = 0.06). In contrast, Actinomycetes, Firmicutes, and β-Proteobacteria showed no correlations with the soil and plant variables (Table  6 ). 
 
 Soil sickness of sugarcane monoculture, defined as reductions in cane yield, stalk diameter, and biomass when sugarcane is cultivated in the same soil successively, is one of the foremost problems in sugarcane production, particularly under field conditions  
 Sugarcane cultivation based on conservative continuous monocultures and ratooning may degrade the soil quality and harm the soil physical processes. It also directly affects the crop growth potential, production yield, and cane quality. However, intercropping systems with legumes or other crops are assumed to improve soil quality and continue to be an important farming practice in developing countries such as China. Intercropping cultivation is a viable choice for nutrient cycling if time allows the establishment of both crops. For example, one crop matures quickly, and another crop takes a long time to mature. We used sugarcane, which is more than a 360-day crop, as the main crop, and we used peanut or soybean as the short-duration crop (120 days). We found that intercropping increased the concentrations of P and available K in the soil. These changes correlated with soil pH, organic matter, available nutrients, soil enzymes, and diazotrophs. The increase in soil organic matter in the intercropping system might have several causes.  The microbial population and soil enzymes are mostly used as soil quality and fertility indicators. We evaluated the soil biological activity via one oxidoreductase (dehydrogenase) and three hydrolases (urease, nitrite reductase, and nitrogenase). The different cropping systems had significant effects on dehydrogenase, nitrogenase, and rhizosphere and plant-associated diazotrophic bacteria. These changes were strongly correlated with endophytic diazotrophs, soil pH, total K, nitrite reductase, and nitrogenase. Our results showed that intercropping systems boost the microbial population and that due to the high abundance of microbes, the soil enzyme activity increased. Additionally, we found significant effects of location, growth stage, and cropping system on the diazotrophs. These results revealed the importance of diazotrophs in soil mineralization and enzyme activation. We observed that higher urease activity was correlated with higher cane yield and sugarcane fresh weight. Our results are consistent with those of previous studies, which reported that intercropping systems enhanced the soil enzyme activity and soil nutrient content compared with monoculture  
 In the present study, we identified 23 different diazotrophic genera and 35 OTUs by 16S rRNA gene sequencing. All genera encountered in our study, namely, Agrobacteria  Interactions between diazotrophic microbes and sugarcane have been widely reported  
 To our knowledge, this study is to define the importance of intercropping systems in reference to soil and plant diazotrophic microbiota and their vital characteristics. The sugarcanelegume intercropping system shows the impact of soil nutrients on the microbial population at different growth stages of sugarcane. The intercropping system plays a significant role in soil nutrient exchange through the enhancement of diazotrophs in the rhizosphere and endosphere of the plants. These diazotrophs regulate nutrient uptake via microbial activity and enhance plant growth and yield, and the positive correlation of Proteobacteria with yield and biomass is key to sugarcanediazotroph interactions. The genera Bacillus, Streptomyces, and Pantoea are the dominant free-living diazotrophs recovered from the sugarcane soil and plants. The rhizosphere-and plant-associated genera Rhizobium, Sinorhizobium, Agrobacterium, and Burkholderia might require further investigation to improve the performance and utilization of these bacteria as bacterial inoculants for sugarcane. Moreover, application techniques need to be optimized for the combination of these diazotrophs and other helper PGPR to produce better outcomes. The mechanisms explaining the synergistic interactions should be a matter of further research to elucidate the biochemical basis of these interactions. Additionally, more studies are needed to determine the proper localization and distribution of free-living and symbiotic diazotrophs under the plant as single or consortium inoculants and to determine the mechanism in detail.
Many countries where cane is produced by small scale producers have investigated intercropping as a means to improve home food security, with the largest output of scientific research papers originating from India, where almost 100 different crops have been tested for their suitability as cane intercrops  Soybean can be grown on almost all well-drained soils; however, the crop is more productive on fertile loam soils. Soybean is not sensitive to acidic soils as many other legumes. Soil with pH 6-7 is suitable for crop growth. In this pH range, adequate calcium and magnesium are normally available. For efficient production as a monocrop, soil must be managed properly to allow optimum uptake of water and nutrients. Fertilizer application is important in the soybean production and has great effect on yield. Soybean requires substantial amount of P fertilizer and a small amount of N in less fertile soil. Fertilizer dose may vary according to the soil fertility and status. A report indicated that application of 18 kg N ha -1 and 46 kg P 2 O 5 ha -1 will give better yield  Soybean is one of the important intercrop suitable for sugarcane. This is mainly due to the fact that soybean has adapted well to the climatic conditions of the sugarcane producing areas and has the greatest potential to fix nitrogen. Nitrogen fixation in soybean is ranging from 32 to 161 18 kg N ha -1  Soybean could also be used as rotation or fallow crop. Yield increases in yield of 20-30% are reported when sugarcane monoculture is broken with soybean  
 Tendaho Sugar Factory is located in Afar regional state of Ethiopia at about 600 km North East of the capital city, Addis Ababa. The area is characterized with acidic climatic condition with mean maximum temperature of 40 o C and minimum temperature varying from 15 o C to 24.9 o C  The experiment was initiated during the crop season 2011/12 and completed in 2013. The experiment was laid out in randomized complete block design (RCBD) with three replications. The experiment included nine treatments (Table  1 ). The experimental size was 87 m 2 (6 furrows each with 1.45 m width and 10 m length). The test varieties were Williams and B52-298 for soybean and sugarcane crop, respectively. Phosphorus fertilizer was applied at planting while nitrogen fertilizer was applied at 2.5 months of cane age. Representative soil data were collected and analyzed for particle size distribution, pH (1:2.5), EC (1:2.5), total N, available P, organic carbon, and CaCO 3 . Data on germination, plant population and yield were collected for soybean. Stalk number count was done at 8 months of sugarcane cane age. At harvest, at the cane age of 14 months, 12 millable stalks were sampled from the middle four furrows and the following parameters were measured: stalk length, stalk girth, stalk weight and estimated recoverable sucrose (ERS). Cane yield was calculated from stalk weight and stalk number while sugar yield were calculated from cane yield and ERS. Furthermore, juice quality parameters such as brix, pol, and purity were taken. 
 It is the percentage by mass of dissolved solids in the solution determined by temperature corrected refractometer  
 Itis the apparent sucrose content of sugarcane expressed as a percentage by mass and determined by a direct polarization method  
 It is the percentage ratio of pol to the total soluble solids (or brix) in a sugar product  
 Itrefers to the estimated total recoverable sucrose percent in the cane or the proportion of sucrose produced by weight of cane processed  
 The land equivalent ration (LER) is the sum of the fractions of the intercropped yields divided by the sole-crop yield. A LER value equal to 1 indicates no difference in yield between the intercrop and collection of monocultures, and any value greater than 1.0 indicates a yield advantage for the intercrop. The land equivalent ratio (LER) was estimated through the following relationship  Yij Yji LER Yii Yii = + Where:   Yij = 
 Statistical analysis of the variance was performed for the collected data using SAS software  
 A partial budget analysis was carried out by considering the following assumptions and cost components: experimental sugar yield was adjusted down by 15% to reflect actual sugar yield at commercial level. Price of Urea, $600 USD ton -1 ; price of DAP, $700 USD ton -1 , haulage cost, $12.5 USD ton -1 of sugar;processing cost, $58 USD ton -1 of sugar; production cost of sugar, $206.5 USD ton -1 ; selling price of sugar, $536 USD ton -1 . Partial budget analysis was used to compare treatments. For partial budget analysis, factors with significant effects were considered  
 
 Analytical results of soil samples indicated that soil of the study site was clay in texture with high pH values at the surface and subsurface layers (Table  2 ). Moreover, the analytical results indicated that soil samples were low in organic carbon, total nitrogen and phosphorous contents indicating the need for application of N and P fertilizers. 
 Analysis of the variance indicated that germination percentage, plant population and yield of soybean were highly significant (p<0.01) among treatments. Germination percentage and soybean yield were the lowest when sole soybean fertilized with neither N nor P while it was the highest for the intercrop fertilized with 18 kg N ha -1 and 46 kg P 2 O 5 ha -1 at planting and 74 kg N ha -1 at 2.5 months. Plant population was the lowest when sole soybean fertilized with 18 kg N ha -1 and 46 kg P 2 O 5 ha -1 at planting while it was the highest for the intercrop fertilized with 18 kg N ha -1 and 46 kg P 2 O 5 ha -1 at planting and 74 kg N ha -1 (Table  3 ). In this study, germination percentage and plant population had contributed remarkable differences for yield of soybean. The response to the applied fertilizer was not consistent; this is in agreement with a study conducted in North Dakota in which soybean response to fertilizer had varied considerably to applied commercial fertilizer such as nitrogen and phosphorus; however, it is recommended to build phosphorus levels by adding 34 kg P 2 O 5 ha -1 on soils prior to soybean planting. Fields those have no prior history may benefit from additional N fertilizer if the soil test shows less than 67.2 kg N ha -1 available in the top 60 cm at planting time. High nitrogen fertility circumvents the benefits of rhizobium bacteria as the bacteria will not convert atmospheric nitrogen when soil nitrogen is readily available to the plant. Soybean with ineffective nodules will respond to N like any other crop  
 Stalk number and weight, cane yield, ERS, and sugar yield were not significant. Juice quality parameters such as brix, pol, and purity were also not significant (Table  4 ). However, in absolute terms, stalk number was the lowest when the intercrop fertilized with only N at rate of 92 kg N ha -1 while it was the highest when the intercrop fertilized only at rate of 18 kg N ha -1 and 46 kg P 2 O 5 ha -1 . Stalk weight was the lowest when both crops were not fertilized, but the highest was found to be the intercrop fertilized with nitrogen at rate of 92 kg N ha -1 . Stalk number and weight contributed for cane yield differences even if these yield attributes were not statistically significant. Surprisingly, unfertilized plots gave highest estimated recoverable sucrose than others treatments. Nevertheless, it had the lowest cane weight consequently lowest cane and sugar yields. Sugar yield was highest when the intercrop fertilized with 18 kg N ha -1 and 46 kg P 2 O 5 ha -1 . Juice quality parameters including brix, pol, and purity were not significantly differed among treatments. 
 The land equivalent ratio (LER) ranged from 0.89 to 3.52; similar study conducted in Guangzhou, China,  5 ). 
 Net benefit cost ratio (NBCR) under sugarcane-soybean intercropping ranged from 0.36 to 4.59. It was the highest when sole soybean fertilized neither N nor P; the lowest was obtained as the intercrop fertilized with 18 kg N ha -1 and 46 kg P 2 O 5 ha -1 at planting and 92 kg N ha -1 at 2.5 months. Other reports stated at higher nitrogen application level, there had been the lowest economic benefit suggesting that the increase of the economic benefit under reduced nitrogen application  5 ). For this rate, profit could be maximized by 14.45%over the control. 
 Soil of the study site was clay in texture with high pH values at the surface and subsurface layers. Moreover, the analytical results indicated that soil was low in organic carbon, total nitrogen and available phosphorous. Such low levels of these essential nutrients, N and P, are indicating the need for application of N and P fertilizers. Analysis of variance for soybean showed that germination percentage, plant population and yield of soybean were highly significant (p<0.01) among treatments. Germination percentage and plant population had contributed remarkable differences for yield of soybean. Stalk number and weight, cane yield, ERS, and sugar yield were not significant. Juice quality parameters such as brix, pol, and purity were also not significant. Land Equivalent Ratio (LER) was the highest, 3.52, when the intercrop received 18 kg N ha -1 and 46 kg P 2 O 5 ha -1 at planting and 74 kg N ha -1 at 2.5 months of cane age. However, the 1 st highest net return and the 2 nd highest net benefit cost ratio (NBCR) were found as the intercrop fertilized with 18 kg N ha -1 and 46 kg P 2 O 5 ha -1 at planting (T4). In addition, due to adoption of intercropping practice, profit could be maximized by 14.45% over the control (T8) and about 50% of fertilizer cost can be reduced. Therefore, T4, fertilizing the intercrop at rate of 18 kg N ha -1 and 46 kg P 2 O 5 ha -1 at planting was found to be the promising treatment to be recommended to Tendaho Sugar Factory.
Sugarcane (Saccharum officinarum) is an important crop for sugar and biofuel production all over the world  Intercropping, growing two or more crops during the same growing season, is generally considered to enhance nutrientuse efficiency compared with monocropping  Phosphorus is essential for sugarcane tiller production, weight per cane, and final stalk population  Mineralization of soil organic P to release inorganic phosphate, involving processes that are mediated by a variety of phosphatases (e.g., acid and alkaline phosphomonoesterase, phosphodiesterase, and phytase) derived from soil microorganisms or plant roots  A long-term field trial was established in southern China with the aim to examine the effects of soybean intercropping with contrasting N inputs on sugarcane production. Results of the first 7 years  
 
 The field trial was established at South China Agricultural University, Guangzhou, China (23°8′N, 113°15′E) in 2009. The climate in this area is typical tropical ocean monsoon with annual precipitation of 1348-2278 mm, and annual temperatures of 21.9-22.8 °C. Weather data (monthly average rainfall and average temperature) of the trial site for the duration of experiment are shown in Fig.  S1 . The soil in this area is classified as Haplic Ferralsol, with the following properties to 30 cm: soil pH 5.7, organic matter 21 g kg -1 , inorganic N 75 mg kg -1 , Olsen P 75 mg kg -1 , and total K 62 mg kg -1 . 
 The trial was established using an additive design with sugarcane as the dominant species. There were three cropping systems (sugarcane monocropping (MS), sugarcane-soybean 1:1 intercropping (SB1), sugarcane-soybean 1:2 intercropping (SB2)), each with two rates of N inputs only to sugarcane (reduced N of 300 kg ha -1 (N1), conventional N of 525 kg ha -1 (N2)), and soybean monocropping without any N input (MB) was included as a control. Each treatment was replicated three times with plots of 5.5 m × 4.8 m, which were arranged in randomized blocks. The inter-row spacing was 120 cm for sugarcane and 30 cm for soybean; the inter-row distance between sugarcane and soybean was 60 cm for SB1 and 45 cm for SB2 (Fig.  S2 ). There were four rows of sugarcane and four (SB1) or eight (SB2) rows of soybean in the intercropping plots; there were four rows of sugarcane (MS) and 16 rows of soybean (MB) in the corresponding sole cropping plots. The cultivar used for sugarcane was Yuetang00-236, which was early maturing and high yielding with a high sugar content and strong tillering ability. The soybean cultivar, Maodou No. 3, was also early maturing and high yielding. Sugarcane and soybean were sown in the furrow (30 cm wide) and ridge (90 cm wide), respectively (Fig.  S2 ). Prior to sowing, the sugarcane furrow received 750 kg ha -1 of compound fertilizer (N: 15%, P: 6.5%, K: 12.4%), 1050 kg ha -1 of superphosphate (P: 8.3%), and 150 kg ha -1 of potassium chloride. Potassium chloride (150 kg ha -1 ) and urea (113 kg ha -1 (N1), 225 kg ha -1 (N2)) were applied at sugarcane tillering, and additional urea (295 kg ha -1 (N1), 672 kg ha -1 (N2)) was applied at sugarcane jointing; all fertilizers were applied to the sugarcane furrows. Sugarcane was sown in February or March and harvested in December, and soybean was sown a week after sugarcane and harvested in May or June. After harvest, both the soil that was influenced by soybean roots (rhizosphere soil) and soybean residues were cultivated into the furrow of sugarcane; as a result, the ridge changed into a furrow and the furrow changed into a ridge. 
 Sampling was carried out on May 2018. Five to six sugarcane or soybean plants were randomly selected in each plot, and excavated by digging outside the intact root zone. After shaking off the loosely adhering soil clods, the soil still attached to the roots was brushed off and pooled to give one composite rhizosphere sample. After plant residues and stones were removed, each soil sample was sieved (< 2 mm) and divided into two parts: one stored at 4 °C for assessment of soil microbial biomass and enzyme activity within 2 weeks, while the other was air-dried for determination of soil chemical properties. Soil microbial biomass C was determined using the ethanol-free chloroform fumigation-extraction method  Soil P fractionation scheme was adapted from  
 All the sampled plants were divided into roots, stems, leaves, and pods (for soybean), and pooled into one composite sample per plot. A sub-sample was oven dried at 70 °C to constant weight and ground for P content determination after digestion with concentrated sulfuric acid and hydrogen peroxide  For measuring soybean biological N 2 fixation, 10 soybean plants were sampled randomly in each plot. All nodules were detached from soybean roots after gentle washing, and then counted, dried, and weighed. Soybean N 2 fixation was assessed using the 15 N natural abundance method  %Ndfa ¼ δ 15 Nref -δ 15 Nleg À Á = δ 15 Nref -δ 15 N À Á Â 100 ð1Þ where δ 15 N ref. and δ 15 Nleg are the 15 N natural abundance (‰) of the reference plant (sole cropped sugarcane in this study) and soybean. δ 15 N is the isotopic discrimination (B value, -2.28) of fixed N in the soybean (as measured in soybean depending solely on fixed N by growing them hydroponically without combined N). Amount of N 2 fixed = %Ndfa × soybean dry weight × plant N concentration. 
 The land equivalent ratio (LER) is defined as the relative land area of a sole cropping system required to produce the same yields as the intercrops and has been generally accepted as an index of intercropping advantage  LER-S ¼ Y S-intercrop Y S-monocrop ð2Þ LER-B ¼ Y B-intercrop Y B-monocrop ð3Þ LER ¼ LER-S þ LER-B ð4Þ where Y S-intercrop and Y B-intercrop are the yields or products P uptake of intercropped sugarcane and soybean, and Y S- monocrop and Y B-monocrop are the yields or products P uptake of sole cropped sugarcane and soybean, respectively. An intercropping system exhibits an advantage if LER > 1.0, and, conversely, no advantage if LER < 1.0. The competitive ratio (CR) is used to assess interspecific competition intensity in an intercropping system  CR SB ¼ P S-intercrop P S-monocrop Â Z S Ä P B-intercrop P B-monocrop Â Z B ð5Þ where CR SB is the competitive ratio of sugarcane relative to soybean, P S-intercrop and P B-intercrop are the yields or products P uptake per unit area of intercropped sugarcane and soybean, P S-monocrop and P B-monocrop are the yields or products P uptake per unit area of sole cropped sugarcane and soybean, and Z S and Z B are the proportions of the area occupied by sugarcane and soybean in the intercropping system. CR SB > 1.0 indicates a stronger P competition for sugarcane in comparison with soybean and vice versa. The P-use efficiency is defined as percent P recoveries in products of the P applied  P use efficiency ¼ P output P input Â 100% ð6Þ where P output refers to P export as plant products, i.e., products P uptake in this study, P input refers to amounts of applied fertilizer P. 
 Data that did not meet assumptions of normality and homogeneity of variance were log-transformed prior to statistical analysis. Differences of means among treatments were evaluated by two-way ANOVA with a Duncan test at P = 0.05. Pearson correlation analysis was conducted to assess the correlations between sugarcane P acquisition and rhizosphere soil properties. All statistical analyses mentioned above were conducted with SPSS 16.0 (SPSS, Chicago, IL, USA). Principal component analysis (PCA) was performed to explore the effects of different cropping systems and N inputs on sugarcane P acquisition and rhizosphere soil properties using the CANOCO software. 
 
 Sugarcane and soybean yields from 2016 to 2018 were recorded and shown in this study (Fig.  1a  and b ); the yield data from 2009 to 2015 can be found in  1a ). For soybean, the yield at sugarcane-soybean 1:2 intercropping (SB2) was significantly higher than that at sugarcane-soybean 1:1 intercropping (SB1), regardless of N inputs. In addition, no significant effects of N inputs on soybean yield were evident (Fig.  1b ). Phosphorus concentration in sugarcane root and leaf was not affected by cropping systems and N inputs (Fig.  1c ). However, stem P concentration of intercropped sugarcane under reduced N input was significantly higher than that under conventional N input (P = 0.005). No difference in stem P concentration of sole cropped sugarcane was evident between reduced and conventional N inputs (Fig.  1c ). For intercropped soybean, P concentration in stem and leaf were not affected by cropping systems and N inputs. Root P concentration of intercropped soybean under reduced N input was 17-67% higher than that under conventional N input (Fig.  1d ). 
 A P budget was constructed to assess P-use efficiency (Table  1 ). Phosphorus inputs from chemical fertilizer were the same for all treatments (P input via deposition and soil weathering were considered negligible). In comparison with sole cropped sugarcane, P removal by sugarcane was 19-20% higher when intercropped with soybean under reduced N input, and 16-30% lower when intercropped with soybean under conventional N input. The P balance was positive for all treatments after accounting for the total input and output of P. Under reduced N input, sugarcane-soybean intercropping significantly decreased total P surplus compared with monocropping, whereas no such difference was evident under conventional N input. In consequence, sugarcane-soybean intercropping significantly increased the total P-use efficiency under reduced N input, which was not affected by cropping systems under conventional N input (Table  1 ). The LER values of yield (LER-yield) and products P uptake (LER-P) were calculated to evaluate the intercropping effect (Fig.  2 ). Irrespective of row configurations and N inputs, all the total LER values were greater than 1.0 (1.67-2.10 for LER-yield, and 1.58-2.15 for LER-P). This indicates an advantage of intercrops compared with sole crops for yield and products P uptake. On the whole, total LER-yield, total LER-P (except for SB2N2), soybean partial LER-yield, and LER-P values of SB2 systems were all significantly higher than that of SB1. Sugarcane partial LER-yield and LER-P were not affected by row configurations. On the other hand, the total LER-yield and LER-P values under reduced N input were consistently higher than that under conventional N input, although the difference was only significant for the SB2 systems. Furthermore, sugarcane partial LER-P under reduced N input was 43-70% higher than that under conventional N input (P < 0.05), indicating a significant advantage of intercropped sugarcane under reduced N input than that under conventional N input for products P uptake (Fig.  2b ). Competitive ratios calculated from yield (CR-yield) and P removal (CR-P) were used to evaluate the competitive ability of sugarcane relative to soybean (Fig.  2 ). Irrespective of row configurations and N inputs, all the CR values were greater than 1.0, indicating a higher competitive ability of sugarcane than soybean in the intercropping systems. The CR-yield was not affected by row configurations and N inputs (Fig.  2c ). However, the CR-P under reduced N input was significantly higher than that under conventional N input (Fig.  2d ), indicating a significant higher competitive ability of sugarcane relative to soybean for products P uptake under reduced N input. 
 In general, soybean intercropping resulted in a decrease of total P in the rhizosphere of intercropped sugarcane compared with sole cropped sugarcane. There was a significant depletion of labile P in the rhizosphere of intercropped sugarcane compared with the sole cropped sugarcane under reduced N input (P < 0.05) (Fig.  3 ). Depletion of residual P was also observed in the rhizosphere of intercropped sugarcane under reduced N input, although this was only significant for the SB1 system. Under conventional N input, the intercropped sugarcane at SB2 depleted labile P and stable P significantly compared with sole cropped sugarcane (Fig.  3 ). Total soil organic P in the rhizosphere of sugarcane was significantly depleted (28% on average) by soybean intercropping under reduced N input (P < 0.05), whereas no such effect was observed under conventional N input. Additionally, no significant difference in total soil inorganic P was observed among different cropping systems and N inputs (Table  2 ). 
 There were no significant effects of cropping systems and N inputs on soil pH, while the rhizosphere pH of sugarcane was consistently lower than that of soybean. Under reduced N input, there was a significant increase of soil acid phosphomonoesterase activity (9-11%, P < 0.05), microbial biomass C (51-57%, P < 0.05), and dehydrogenase activity (28-144%, only significant for SB1) in the rhizosphere of intercropped sugarcane compared with sole sugarcane. In contrast, there were no significant differences observed for acid phosphomonoesterase activity, microbial biomass C, and dehydrogenase activity between cropping systems under conventional N input (Table  2 ). Acid phosphomonoesterase activity and a Calculated as the difference between total P inputs and removals b Calculated as the quotient of total P removal and P inputs multiplied by 100 Letters indicated significant differences (P < 0.05) among treatments microbial biomass C (except for SB2N1) in the rhizosphere of intercropped sugarcane under reduced N input were significantly higher than that under conventional N input (P < 0.05). In addition, both acid phosphomonoesterase and dehydrogenase activity in the rhizosphere of intercropped soybean under reduced N input were significantly higher than that under conventional N input (P < 0.05) (Table  2 ). 
 It is clear to see that the nodule number and biomass of intercropped soybean were significantly affected by N application rates, not by row configurations. When N input was reduced, the nodule number increased by 2.1-4.1-fold (P = 0.001) and the nodule biomass increased by 1.8-2.0-fold (P = 0.008) compared with that under conventional N input (Fig.  4a  and b ). Both the efficiency and amount of N 2 fixation were significantly lower under intercropping compared with monocropping. In addition, both the efficiency and amount of N 2 fixation under reduced N input were consistently higher than that under conventional N input, although the difference was only statistically significant for the SB2 systems. And SB2N1 showed significant higher N 2 fixation efficiency and amount than the other intercropping treatments (Fig.  4c  and d ). 
 Results of PCA showed that the P acquisition and rhizosphere chemical and biochemical properties of sugarcane were clearly separated between reduced and conventional N inputs (Fig.  5 ). Under reduced N input, the P acquisition and rhizosphere properties of intercropped sugarcane (SB1N1 and SB2N1) were clearly distinguished from that of sole sugarcane (MSN1), whereas no clear clustering appeared ident under conventional N input (Fig.  5 ). The rhizosphere acid phosphomonoesterase activity showed a significant negative correlation with organic P but a positive correlation with P uptake, stem P concentration, and P-use efficiency of sugarcane (Fig.  6  and S3 ). A significant positive correlation was also detected among sugarcane P uptake, P-use efficiency, and yield (Fig.  S3 ). In addition, the acid phosphomonoesterase activity in the rhizosphere of soybean and N 2 fixation showed a significant positive correlation (Fig.  S4 ). 
 
 In general, there was no difference in sugarcane yield among different cropping systems and N inputs (except SB2 in 2017), in line with  S1 ). The planting density of at SB2 was double that of SB1, resulting in higher yield and intercropping advantage than SB1 (see below). The LER value can be considered an indicator of crops resource use for plant growth all over the growing season  
 Phosphorus is essential for sugarcane tiller production and final stalk population  As the forms, amounts, and dynamics of soil P make a significant contribution to plant P nutrient  6  The relationships of acid phosphomonoesterase under sugarcane with (a) organic P and (b) sugarcane P uptake  Mineralization of soil organic P to release orthophosphate, processes that are mediated largely by phosphatase (e.g., acid phosphomonoesterase, alkaline phosphomonoesterase, phosphodiesterase, and phytase) deriving from microorganisms or plant roots, has been shown to make a significant contribution to plant P requirements  In summary, soybean intercropping with reduced N input stimulated acid phosphomonoesterase activity and decreased organic P in the rhizosphere of sugarcane. Correlations between depletion of organic P and increase in phosphatase activity have been reported in the rhizosphere of clover (Trifolium alexandrinum L. and Trifolium subterraneum L.) and wheat  
 This study investigated the impact of soybean intercropping with contrasting N inputs on sugarcane production and P acquisition. We observed a significant yield advantage of sugarcane-soybean intercropping over sole cropping, and the advantage was more pronounced under reduced N input which may be due to a high degree of complementary N use between the two species. The second major finding was that soybean intercropping with reduced N input stimulated acid phosphomonoesterase activity and consequent depletion of organic P in the rhizosphere of sugarcane, which contributed to the increased sugarcane P acquisition and system P-use efficiency. The interspecific facilitation of P acquisition could be associated with the enhanced soybean N 2 fixation, soil microbial biomass, and activity under reduced N input. Therefore, we conclude that soybean intercropping with reduced N input maintain a sustainable sugarcane production by both complementary N use and facilitated P acquisition. These findings our understanding of the interconnected relationships of N and P cycling and highlight potential application of cereal-legume intercropping to reduce fertilizer input.
Temporal and spatial intensification of cropping is the need of the day to keep up the pace between crop production and the burgeoning populated countries like India. Though intercropping is an age-old practice it has attracted worldwide attention owing to additional yield advantages  An experiment was conducted at the Research Farm, Allahabad Agricultural University, Allahabad in rabi season of 2000. The soil of the experimental field was sandy loam with a pH of 7.5, 0.34% organic carbon, 208 kg ha -1 available nitrogen, 10 kg ha -1  available phosphorus and 230 kg ha -1 available potassium. The experiment was conducted in randomized block design with seven treatments in three replications. The treatments consisted of a sole crop of sugarcane and sugarcane intercropped with rajmash, gram, vegetable pea, mustard, maize and field pea respectively. NPK @ 250, 150, 100 kg ha -1 were applied. The entire dose of phosphorus, potash and half dose of Nitrogen were applied as basal. The remaining nitrogen was applied in 2 splits at tillering phase and grand growth phase. Sugarcane was planted at 1m row spacing. The intercrops were given with respective dose of recommended fertilizers and row spacings of 0.3, 0.3, 0.2, 0.5, 0.5, 0.3m for rajmash, gram, vegetable pea, mustard, maize and field pea respectively. The results (Table  1 ) revealed that the maximum number of millable canes per clump  A significant increase in brix value (19.5 %) and cane yield (115.0 t ha -1 ) were also obtained when sugarcane was intercropped with vegetable pea. Sugarcane intercropped with rajmash gave the second best cane yield of 108 t ha -1 . garden pea being a compatible intercrop with sugarcane, the increase in Brix value and cane yield might be due to better utilization of available resources and better partitioning of dry matter by both the crops.  Maximum B : C was obtained in sugarcane + vegetable pea  1 .  
 Sugarcane is an important cash-cum-industrial crop of Pakistan. It is the main source of revenue in Pakistan after cotton and rice. It is a source of providing raw material to many allied industries and employment  Sustainable agriculture seeks, at least in principle, to use nature as the model for designing agricultural systems. Since nature consistently integrates her plants and animals into a diverse landscape, a major tenet of sustainable agriculture is to create and maintain diversity. Intercropping offers farmers the opportunity to engage nature's principle of diversity on their farms. Spatial arrangements of plants, planting rates, and maturity dates must be considered when planning intercrops. Intercrops can be more productive than growing pure stands  Cane is planted in wider rows, and takes several months to canopy, during which time the soil, solar energy and much of the rainfall between the rows goes to waste. Any inter-row crop must therefore mature and be harvested within 90-120 days before the cane canopies  The use of leguminous intercrops can help naturally to increase the available nitrogen in the soil, thereby reducing the use of inorganic fertilizers  Autumn-planted sugarcane occupies the land for more than one year and hence the farmers have no chance to taken other crop in both the winter and summer season. The growth rate is very slow during the winter and early spring due to prevalence of low temperature. This period can safely be utilized for raising suitable winter intercrops maturing up to the end of April without doing much damage to the associated cane crop  
 being the subtropical country with best growing conditions can easily exploit the potential of growing more than two crops in a year through intercropping. This may increase production per unit land area with suitable farm management practices. Consequently the present study was designed to explore the feasibility and scope of different intercrops in sugarcane and their economics and assess their effects on growth, yield and quality of cane. 
 The  
 Emergence and tillers per plot was counted at 45 days and 90 days after planting respectively. Number of canes was counted from the two strips in each plot at final harvest and was converted to canes per hectare. Crop was harvested at maturity by taking an area of two strips from each plot and cane yield per hectare was estimated. Net return was determined by subtracting the total cost of production from the gross income of each treatment  
 Benefit cost ratio was calculated by dividing the gross income with the total cost of production. 
 
 The data collected were subjected to Fisher's analysis of variance technique and LSD test at 0.05% was used to compare the differences among treatment means  
 
 It is explicit from the data that emergence has non significant results in all treatments. But the maximum germination of 49.60 % was attained in SC+ lentil which was followed that of by 49.48 % in SC + canola. The lowest emergence of 49.25 % was attained in sole SC. The results are in line with those of  
 The summarized observations in Table  1  regarding average number of tillers per plant recorded at the time of harvesting revealed that significantly more number of tillers per stool (2.20) was produced in the plots where lentil was intercropped in sugarcane crop which was followed that of by 2.15 in SC + onion. The difference in number of tillers per plant of sugarcane with intercrops showed statistically non-significant results. The data clearly manifested that intercrops did show no competitive effect on sugarcane but lentil improve more tillers per plant. Tillers per plant are at par in case of canola, onion intercrops and sole sugarcane. The lowest numbers of tillers per plant (2.02) were attained in SC + linseed. These results are in contradict with the findings of  
 Regarding the cane count it was observed that the highest cane count of 140.33 thousand ha -1 was recorded in SC + lentil which was at par with SC + onion with cane count of 139.07 thousand ha - 1 . This may be due to more tillers per plant in lentil intercropping in SC. The lowest numbers of cane count 121.51 thousand ha -1 was recorded in SC + linseed and these results are in line with  
 A perusal of data in Table  1  showed that Sole SC and different intercrops in SC had a significant impact on cane yield. SC + lentil produced the highest cane yield with the quantity of 138. 44 t ha -1 which was followed that of by 135.55 t ha -1 in SC + onion crop system. The significantly higher sugarcane yield in SC + lentil is due to higher cane count per ha and more tillers per plant and availability of sufficient soil nutrients as lentil is a leguminous and restorative nature crop. The lowest crop yield of 117.16 t ha -1 was attained when linseed was sown in sugarcane. These results are similar to  
 It is clear from the data in Table  1  that sugar yield was significantly affected by all the treatments. The maximum sugar yield of 16. 56 t ha -1 was recorded where lentil was intercropped in sugarcane which was followed that of by 15.61 t ha -1 in sugarcane + onion and 15.46 t ha -1 in sugarcane + canola crop system. The lowest sugar yield of 14.02 t ha -1 was attained when linseed was sown in sugarcane. On the basis of these results, it may be inferred that lentil intercropping in cane will be economical and better for the farmers to get maximum sugar yield. Our results are supported the findings of  
 The economics of intercropping and sole sugarcane was worked out in table  2 . The economic benefits got from different intercrops planted in sugarcane were compared with the sole sugarcane. The data revealed that high economic advantage of Rs. 542810/-ha -1 with benefit cost ratio of 3.51 was recorded in the treatment where lentil was intercropped in sugarcane. Lentil is a legume intercrop enhances soil fertility through the excretion of amino acids into the rhizosphere. The nitrogen fixed by the legume intercrop may be available to the associated sugarcane in the current season itself, as sugarcane remains in the field for over nine months after the harvest of the legumes. Since considerable addition of nutrient to soil was result in more cane and sugar yield per hectare which ultimately leads to more economic benefits than others. The lowest net benefit of Rs. 422275/-ha -1 was attained in sole SC. Our results are in line with  
 Intercropping is one of the sure way of increasing production without much increase in the application of inputs. Intercropping refers to growing of two or more crops simultaneously on the same piece of land. This system gives crop intensification of both time and space. Apart from its advantages like diversification, labour distribution, maintenance of soil fertility, suppression of weeds, two major advantages are higher productivity and greater stability through utilization of solar energy, moisture and nutrients. Many successful intercropping systems have been evaluated through out of the world, to get maximum production from the small land holdings. Mono-cropping is less economical to meet the farmers need. The intercropping produces two crops in a year, but it also influence the yield and yield components of sugarcane by competing for nutrients and other environmental factors. Intercropping one or more crops with sugarcane is an appropriate approach of getting additional farm income besides the principle sugarcane crop. As sugarcane is planted at adequate row spacing and this inter-rows space practically remains vacant in early growth stage which extends nearly four months where suitable short duration winter crops may be grown as intercrop that increase total yield, higher monitory return, and greater resource utilization and fulfils the diversified needs of the farmers. Intercropping in sugarcane with various short duration crops like cabbage, potato, mungbean etc. has been proven profitable in comparison to growing sugarcane as sole crop  
 The present investigation "Effect of intercropping and planting methods on growth, yield and quality of sugarcane under lateritic soil condition" was conducted at  Planting of sugarcane was done in paired row with 60 x 60 -120 cm in dry soil in which 3 eye bud setts were placed in row and buried in soil at 5 cm depth. Planting of sugarcane in conventional method with 90 cm spacing was done by digging furrows at 15 cm depth and setts were planted in it. The six lines of sugarcane were maintained both in paired row as well as conventional planting. Intercrops were sown in 120 cm gap in between paired row and both sides of plots of sugarcane. The dibbling of groundnut and green gram seeds was done at 30 cm row spacing, where three rows were maintained in between gap of 120 cm and one row sown at both sides of plot, total eight number of rows in plot were maintained. In case of sweet corn, the seeds were dibbled at 45 x 30 cm spacing. Thus two rows were maintained between gaps of paired row and one row at both sides of each plot. Total number of six rows were accommodated in the plot. The cabbage seedlings were transplanted at 45 x 45 cm spacing in which two rows were maintained in between gaps of paired row and one row at both sides, thus total number of six rows were maintained. The amaranthus seeds were sown in line sowing at 20 cm row spacing where four lines were maintained in gap of paired rows and two rows at both the sides, the total lines being twelve per plot. 
 The recommended dose of fertilizer of sugarcane viz., 250 kg per ha N, 115 kg per ha P2O5 and 115 kg per ha K2O was used for field experiment. At the time of planting 10 per cent dose of N and entire dose of P2O5 and K2O were applied by placement method just before planting of sugarcane crop. Remaining N were applied in three split doses @ 40, 10 and 40 per cent at an interval of six weeks from each preceding dose. In case of intercrops groundnut and green gram were fertilized with recommended dose of 25:50:00 kg per ha at the time of sowing whereas, sweet corn fertilized with 50 per cent recommended dose of N, 100 per cent P2O5 and K2O as a basal application just before sowing of crop and 50 per cent N as top dressing at 30 and 60 DAS. In case of cabbage the recommended dose split into 100 per cent P2O5 and K2O as a basal application and N split into three doses such as at the time of transplanting and remaining at 20 and 40 DAP. Amaranthus was fertilized with recommended fertilizer dose 100 per cent at the time of sowing. As per recommendation time to time intercultural operations and plant protection measures was taken Intercrops were harvested, uprooted, cleaned and subsequently fresh yield per net plot was recorded. Finally, it was presented on hectare basis. The sugarcane was also harvested at maturity by cutting at ground level. The green top and dry leaves of millable cane were separated from each other. Following observations were made at harvest. The weight of millable canes from each net plot was recorded separately with the help of platform balance and the cane yield per hectare was worked out. The weight of green tops and trash (dry leaves) per net plot was recorded and converted on hectare basis. 
 The soil samples collected after harvest of sugarcane were used for determination of available nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium. The available nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium in soil at harvesting stage was determined by Alkaline potassium permanganate method (Subbaiah and Asija, 1956) [11] Bray's No. 1 method (Black, 1965) [3] and Flame photometry method  
 The canes sampled for dry matter determination at harvest were utilized for chemical estimation. The dried samples were ground to fine powder (100 mesh) and about ten g of representative sample from the powdered material was preserved in suitably labelled brown paper bags for chemical estimation. The nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium content was determined by Microkjeldahl method, molybdovandate phosphoric acid method and flame photometric method, respectively. The uptake of nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium (kg ha -1 ) was worked out by multiplying the percentage of these nutrients in cane with the corresponding dry yields of the respective constituent. The collected data during experiment was analyzed as per the procedure given by Panse and Sukhatme (1967) [7] . 
 Effect of treatments on yield of sugarcane Data pertaining to yield studies of sugarcane and intercrops is influenced by various treatments of planting methods and intercrops are presented in Table  2 . 
 The number of millable canes was significantly influenced by various treatments of planting methods and intercropping systems. Result revealed that, sugarcane planted with conventional spacing (90 cm in furrows) produced lower number of millable canes as compared to sole PRS (60 x 60 -120 cm). In respect of intercropping systems, the number of millable canes was significantly higher in paired row planted sugarcane intercropped with green gram (T7) i.e. 78251.67 which was at par with paired row planted sugarcane intercropped with groundnut (T3) i.e. 74671.33 and sole paired row planting sugarcane (T2) i.e. 73328.67 over rest of the treatments. The lowest number of millable canes was observed when paired row planted sugarcane intercropped with sweet corn (T4) i.e. 66954.67. 
 The data clearly indicated that sole paired row planted sugarcane intercropped with green gram (T7) produced significantly superior in production of cane yield (89.03 t ha -1 ) during investigation than the treatment T1 and T4 but it was remained identical with treatments T3, T5, T2 and T6 in descending order. However, among all the planting methods sole paired row planted sugarcane recorded comparatively higher but statistically equal cane yield per hectare with conventional planting (90 cm in furrows). 
 From the data, it was observed that, the conventional planting (90 cm in furrows) of sugarcane obtained lower green top yield than sole paired row planting of sugarcane (60 x 60 -120 cm). Among the different intercropping systems, the significantly highest yield of green tops was recorded by paired row planting sugarcane intercropped with green gram (T7) i.e. 11.66 t per ha as compared to all other treatments. However, the significantly lowest green top yield obtained with treatment T4 (PRS + sweet corn) i.e. 8.99 t per ha. 
 The data clearly denoted that, the paired row planted sugarcane intercropped with green gram recorded significantly higher trash yield of 9.15 t per ha as compared with sugarcane planted at normal spacing (90 cm in furrows) and sole paired row sugarcane (60 x 60 -120 cm) but it was remained at par with rest of the treatments. However, sole paired row sugarcane recorded relatively higher but statistically equal trash yield as compared to conventional planted sugarcane (90 cm in furrows). The wider spacing recorded higher yield which is the ultimate result of increased accumulation of photosynthesis due to resource availability like sunlight, water and nutrients etc. Similar results were also reported by  Intercrop yield (kg ha -1 ) Amongst the different intercropping systems, sweet corn produced highest yield (8277 kg ha -1 ). Next to sweet corn, cabbage intercropping system produce maximum yield (7715.33 kg ha -1 ) which are followed by intercrops such as amaranthus (1826 kg ha -1 ) and groundnut (844 kg ha -1 ). The lowest intercrop yield (265 kg ha -1 ) obtained in green gram than all other intercrops. It may be concluded from result that, the vegetable type of intercrops has economically more viable and gave maximum additional benefit as compare to seed type of intercrops. While, the intercrops like green gram and groundnut play a complementary role and helpful for maximum yield of main crop. The results corroborate with findings of  Effect on nutrient content and uptake by sugarcane. Data regarding total nutrient content and uptake of nitrogen, phosphorous and potassium by the sugarcane as influenced by different treatments of planting methods and intercrops are presented in Table  3 . 
 Data regarding to the nutrient content of nitrogen, phosphorous and potassium content in the sugarcane after harvest indicated that the N, P and K content in sugarcane  Agric. Sci. Digest, 26(1) : 77-78, 2006
In recent years, it has been shown that the N 2 -fixing bacteria associated with many Brazilian cane varieties are able to provide very significant levels of biological N 2 fixation (BNF -  Approximately two thirds of Brazil's sugar cane is utilised for producing ethanol which is used directly as fuel for light motor vehicles (cars and vans) and all gasoline in the country contains 22-24% ethanol. In total 17% of Brazil's fuel in the transport sector is provided by this biofuel. Eliminating the need for N fertiliser for the sugar cane crop, which requires large quantities of natural gas for its production, brings not only economic advantages but also would improve the energy balance (energy yield of the ethanol/fossil fuel used in its production) for bioethanol production  The objective of this study was to evaluate the contribution of BNF to several green-manure crops used at planting of sugar cane, or in the inter-rows of the ratoon crop, and the subsequent effects on the N supply and yield of a sugar cane crop growing in an extremely sandy Ndeficient soil. 
 
 This experiment was conducted at the field station of Embrapa Agrobiologia on a nutrient-deficient sandy Planossol (Arenic Halpudult, 80% sand), with the following chemical characteristics (0-20 cm): 0.43% organic-C (Walkley-Black), 0.048% total N, pH 4.4, 5 mg kg 1 available P (Mehlich I), and exchangeable cation levels of 0.054 (K), 1.0 (Ca), 1.0 (Mg) and 0.5 cmol kg 1 (Al). The experiment was conducted over two consecutive years. In the first year the legumes were planted on the same day as the sugar cane (13 November 1997) and in the second year they were planted on 19 November (1998), immediately after the harvesting of the cane which lasted from 15 to 18 November. This second planting of the legumes was conducted to investigate their effect on the growth of the first ratoon crop (the cane crop which grows from the tillering of the stem bases of the previous cane crop), and the treatments and spacing were identical to those used in the first (plant crop) phase. The experiment had six treatments consisting of: four different legume species (Crotalaria juncea, C. spectabilis, Canavalia ensiformis and Mucuna deeringiana) planted at 30, 80, 6 and 8 seeds per linear metre, respectively, and two control treatments both without legumes, one amended with 100 kg N as urea fertiliser in a split addition (half at planting and half 60 days after planting: DAP), and the other with no fertiliser N addition. The sugar cane (variety RB 72-454) was planted uniformly as setts (germinating cane stems) over the entire area of the experiment in rows spaced at 1.2 m. The plots (66 m, 5 rows of sugar cane 6 m in length) were arranged in a randomised complete block design with four replicates. The legumes were planted as two rows spaced 40 cm apart between each row of cane. At the same time as the sugar cane, two rows of both sorghum (cv. BR 601) and maize (cv. BR 200) were planted along the side of the experiment to act as non-N 2 -fixing reference plants for the application of the 15 N natural abundance technique. Two megagrams (tonnes) of dolomitic lime were applied at the time of land preparation, and at planting 82 kg K ha 1 was applied as potassium chloride, 65 kg P ha 1 as single superphosphate and 50 kg fritted trace elements (Type BR 12). For the second planting of the legumes (phase 2; 19 November 1998) the arrangement of the treatments in the plots was the same. 
 The soil cover was monitored at 14, 22, 31, 37, 46, 51 and 71 DAP using an overhead digital camera and the images were analysed using the graphics software SIARCS (version 3.0) developed by the Embrapa Instrumentation Centre in S¼o Carlos, S¼o Paulo State. An area of 7.2 m 2 of each legume was harvested on two occasions during the experiment. For Crotalaria juncea these dates were 35 and 51 DAP, and for the other three legumes 35 and 71 DAP. Composite samples of the entire shoot tissue of four plants of each of the neighbouring sorghum and maize plants were taken at eight consecutive harvests at approximately 2-week intervals to assess the variation in the 15 N abundance of the plant-available N in the soil during the first 16 weeks of the experiment. The number of tillers of the sugar cane was monitored at 35, 52, 70 and 114 DAP. Composite samples of the first emergent leaves from six cane plants were taken from each plot at three occasions during the growth of the plant crop (150, 240 and 300 DAP) and during the ratoon crop (65, 95 and 145 DAP). At the final harvest of the sugar cane (12 months) all aerial tissue was collected from the three central rows (total area 21.6 m 2 ) and the plants divided into stem, senescent leaves and green leaves. 
 All plant material was dried (>72 h at 65C), weighed and ground, initially with a Wiley mill to <0.85 mm, then aliquots were finely ground for total N and 15 N determinations using a roller mill similar to that described by  
 The percentage of plant N derived from BNF (%Ndfa) was calculated from the 15 N abundance of the legume (or sugar cane) and a companion non-N 2 -fixing reference plant as indicated in the following equation  %Ndfa ¼ 100 d 15 N ref Àd 15 N fixing plant À Á = d 15 N ref ÀB À Á where d 15 Nref represents the level of d 15 N detected in a reference plant growing in the same soil at the same time as the test legume, d 15 Nfixing plant is the 15 N abundance of the legume and B is the 15 N abundance (‰) of the legume grown obtaining all of its N from N 2 fixation. There are few published values of B for the four legumes used in this study, but from a collection of recent data catalogued by  
 
 The height and soil cover of the four legume crops planted simultaneously with the cane in November 1997 showed that Crotalaria juncea was the quickest to establish and cover the soil. At 31 DAP it reached a height of over 60 cm (data not shown), more than twice that of any of the other green manures, and covered 55% of the soil, 16% more than that of the second-most vigorous legume, Canavalia ensiformis (Table  1 ). At 35 DAP, the growth of Crotalaria spectabilis was so poor that samples were not taken for dry matter evaluation. In contrast, the growth of Crotalaria juncea was so vigorous that it was finally harvested (and the remaining area of the plot cut down to form a mulch) at 51 DAP, 20 days earlier than planned, as it was thought that the shading of the emerging cane plants would have a serious   2 ). The mean 15 N abundance of leaf samples of the reference (non-N 2 -fixing) sorghum plants was approximately 1.0‰ lower than that of the reference maize plants and this difference was significant at P <0.05 (Table  3 ). The 15 N abundance of the legumes at their final harvest (weighted mean of whole plants) ranged from +1.05 for Crotalaria juncea to 0.92‰ for Mucuna deeringiana (Table  4 ). Utilising these values and the mean values for the neighbouring sorghum and maize reference plants, it was possible to make two separate estimates of the proportion of N derived from BNF by each legume. While the results indicated that all of the legumes had obtained over 60% of their N from BNF, it is interesting that Crotalaria juncea, the legume that accumulated most N, derived a somewhat lower proportion of its total N from BNF than the other legumes and this was significantly lower than for the Mucuna which appeared to obtain virtually 100% of its N from BNF. The results in Table  4  indicate that in 71 days of growth Canavalia ensiformis obtained the largest contribution from BNF, between 43 and 55 kg N ha 1 , followed by Crotalaria juncea (between 39 and 52 kg ha 1 , but this quantity of biologically fixed N was accumulated in only 51 days of growth). In 71 days of growth the Mucuna accumulated 35 kg N ha 1 and Crotalaria spectabilis only 13 to 16 kg ha 1 . In the second phase of the experiment, where the same green-manure legumes were planted in between the rows of the ratooning cane, the Crotalaria juncea grew much less vigorously and, when harvested at 51 DAP, had accumulated only about 1 Mg ha 1 dry matter and 24 kg N ha 1 (Table  5 ). The Canavalia ensiformis and Mucuna maintained their performance of the previous year, and the Crotalaria spectabilis improved its growth to yield 1.4 Mg ha 1 dry matter and accumulate 26 kg N. The 15 N abundance of the four legumes was evaluated, but there were no suitable non-N 2 -fixing reference crops available to sample. The fact that all of the legumes were higher in 15 N abundance at this harvest compared to the previous year indicates that the 15 N abundance in the available N in the soil increased, and/or the proportion of N derived from BNF by all of the legumes decreased. Effect of the green-manure crops on the growth of sugar cane As would be expected, the effect of the different inter-row legumes on the number of tillers of the cane became apparent when the legumes had reached large indices of soil cover and accumulated more than the equivalent of 1 Mg ha 1 (dry weight) of biomass at 52-70 DAP (Fig.  1 ). As was expected the greatest reduction in tillering was induced by Crotalaria juncea which reduced the number of tillers by 22% compared to the non-N-fertilised control after only 52 days of growth. The other legumes had no significant effect at this time but the tiller number was significantly reduced by 33% by Canavalia ensiformis and Crotalaria juncea at 70 DAP. Subsequently, after the legumes had been cut down (114 DAP), the impact of these two legumes on tillering was attenuated but still statistically significant (P <0.05). In the following year in the ratoon cane crop, even though the growth of the Crotalaria juncea was far inferior to the previous year and accumulated less dry matter and N than the other three legumes, it had the most inhibitory effect on cane tiller production, this effect being significant (P <0.05) between this treatment and Crotalaria spectabilis and the control treatments (Fig.  2 ). In the plant crop of sugar cane at 150 DAP the concentration of N in the first emergent cane leaf was significantly higher in the Crotalaria juncea treatment than in the control treatments, even where N fertiliser had been added (Table  6 ). At the subsequent leaf sampling (240 DAP) the N concentration was still significantly higher than the zero N control treatment. This suggests a  significant quantity of N was transferred from the Crotalaria to the sugar cane at this mid-stage of cane growth or that the reduction in cane growth due to an allelopathic interaction resulted in increased N concentration. At final sampling (300 DAP) the effect disappeared. There were no significant effects of the presence of the inter-row legume (or N fertiliser) on the N concentration in the first emergent leaf of the ratoon cane crop (data not shown). There were no significant effects of the inter-row legume on the 15 N abundance of the first emergent leaf of the plant crop cane and the 15 N abundance was approximately constant with time (means of all treatments: +3.32, +3.21 and +3.44‰ for 150, 240 and 300 DAP, respectively). Assuming that the 15 N abundance of the leaf samples was representative of that of the whole cane plant, the mean value (+3.32‰) was approximately 1‰ and 2‰ units below that of the neighbouring sorghum and maize, respectively. This indicates that the cane extracted soil N with a lower 15 N abundance than either of these neighbouring crops, or that the cane obtained between 24% and 38% from plant-associated BNF. The samples taken of the first emergent leaf at 65, 95 and 145 DAP of the ratoon crop again showed no significant differences in 15 N abundance between treatments and very little change with time (data not shown). However, the mean 15 N abundance of the leaf samples in the control treatment was 4.42‰, suggesting that associated BNF inputs were lower, or negligible. The total cane yields of fresh cane, and the dry matter and N accumulation for the plant and ratoon crops of the cane are displayed in Table  7 . Considering that no N fertiliser was added to the control treatment, and this soil was extremely low in organic matter (total N and C), the cane yields of 75 and 66 Mg ha 1 , and total N accumulation of 139 and 91 kg N ha 1 are high (mean cane yields for Brazil and Rio de Janeiro State, 68 and 47 Mg ha 1 , respectively). At both harvests there was a significant response of cane yield to 100 kg ha 1 N fertiliser and a strong tendency for higher cane yields with Crotalaria spectabilis in the inter-rows. However, these higher cane yields were not reflected in the dry matter or N accumulation of the cane crop. There was a consistent tendency for Crotalaria juncea to depress dry matter yields of the cane, even though in the plant crop it was this legume which obtained most N from BNF. 
 The quantification of the contributions of BNF to the green-manure legumes or directly, or indirectly, to the sugar cane, relied on the application of the 15 N natural abundance technique. When the 15 N abundance of a legume growing in the field is close to that of N 2 of the air (0.0‰), the value %Ndfa becomes very sensitive to the exact value of B. In this study B was not determined, but this value can vary with growth stage and rhizobium strain and the proportion of total plant N harvested in the aerial tissue  A further problem associated with the use of the technique is that different plant tissues may vary in their 15 N abundance and if only small samples are taken from the plant this may not represent the 15 N abundance of the whole plant (or shoot). Only leaf samples were taken for the intermediate samplings of sugar cane plants (150, 240 and 300 DAP of the plant crop and 65, 95 and 145 DAP of the legumes for the ratoon crop), but earlier work at this site reported by  There are contradictory effects on the growth of sugar cane of planting green-manure legumes in the cane interrows. If the legumes grow vigorously they may compete with the germinating cane plants for light or for nutrients from the soil, but if there are large contributions of BNF this would be expected to benefit the cane in the longterm such that eventually cane yields are increased. This competitive inhibition of the sugar cane growth is often evident in the tillering of the cane plants. As each tiller potentially produces a stem which develops into the storage organ for sucrose, this inhibition would be expected to have negative consequences on cane and sugar yield. In addition to competition for light and nutrients, some green-manure species may have allelopathic effects on neighbouring plants of another species. This is known to be true for Crotalaria spectabilis which has been shown to have allelopathic effects on various other crops (e.g. wheat, Phaseolus vulgaris;  7 ). It is evident from this study that while BNF inputs to some of the green-manure legumes were quite significant, ranging from 35 to 55 kg N ha 1 for Canavalia ensiformis, Crotalaria juncea and Mucuna deeringiana at plant crop, the effects of the presence of these legumes on final cane yield, dry matter or N accumulation were not statistically significant. While there was some evidence that the sugar cane plants obtained some input of BNF from associated N 2fixing bacteria, there were significant increases in yield and growth parameters due to the addition of 100 kg N ha 1 urea fertiliser, showing the need for a higher N supply for maximum yields in this nutrient-deficient sandy soil. The best possibility would appear to be to plant the green-manure legumes some months before the planting of the sugar cane so as to avoid the inhibitory effects of the legumes on cane growth. However, this option is not available for the ratoon crops unless legume crops are discovered that can accumulated more N from BNF than those used in this study, within the 60-70 days of growth available to them.
In African highland, soil structure and fertility is maintained or enhanced by the use of fallow, animal manure (FYM), compost, farm wastes and green manure  Even prior to the introduction of mineral fertilizers, about 80 years in Nigeria, manure, compost and FYM were particularly the only sources of nutrient to crop  In view of the high cost, scarcity, soil pollution and Corresponding author : A.K. Gana Fax : +234-66-461234 unreliability of inorganic fertilizer, there is need to intensify research on the use of legumes and FYM, and also to make a scientific comparison on the effect of the two fertilizer sources on the growth and yield of cane. The objective of this study is to compare the effect of legumes and FYM on the growth and yield of sugarcane so as to be able to recommend the best to farmers. This will serve as a means of reducing the cane farmers reliance on inorganic nitrogen fertilizers. 
 Field trials were carried out at the upland sugarcane experimental field of the National Cereals Research Institute, Farm, Badeggi (9~ 06~ in the Southern Guinea Savanna ecological zone of Nigeria in 1998 and 1999 wet seasons. Bida Local (variety of chewing cane) was intercropped with three legume species cowpea (var. L. 25), soybean (TGM 579) and Sesbania rostrata. Treatments also included solecane, cane treated with cowdung at rate of 10 ton/ha and NPK inorganic fertilizer at rate of 120:60:90 kg/ha on 30m 2 (6 • 5m) gross plot and 12m 2 (6 • 2m) net plot following a randomised complete block design in three replicates. The legumes were incorporated into the soil when they were 6-weeks old. The cowdung was incorporated into the soil 2 weeks   the growth parameters measured at 1 MAP in both 1998 and 1999 (Table  2 ) in relative terms, cane planted in plots treated with cowdung and inorganic fertilizer, however, produced the highest values for percent germination in both years. This may be attributed to the early supply of nitrogen and phosphorous by cowdung and inorganic fertilizer used for root development and sprouting by the cane  At 6 and 12 MAP in both years (5 and 11 months after legume incorporation) cane intercropped with legumes significantly recorded higher crop vigour scores, stalk height and tiller number/plot than the sole cane (Table  3 ). Among the cowdung, inorganic fertilizer and legumes in 1998 and 1999 cane treated with cowdung and inorganic fertilizer significantly produced better canes in terms of height, vigour, tiller number/plot and cane yield (ton/ha). However, cane treated with cowdung significantly recorded higher stalk height, crop vigour score, tiller number/plot than cane treated with inorganic fertilizer in both yeras (Table  3 ). This may be attributed to the ability of FYM in improving the soil structure and aeration thereby increasing the yield  
 From these results, all the three sources of fertilizers (legumes, cowdung and inorganic fertilizers) have positive influence on cane. However, the best was observed in plots treated with cowdung. Therefore, the use of cowdung should be highly encouraged for sugarcane farmers to adopt.
Abstract Intercropping helps diversification of crop production to fulfill diversified need of farmers. Sugarcane because of its initial slow growth can comfortably accommodate short-duration crops in between the rows. With the aim of assessing the profitability of sugarcane based-intercropping system, an experiment was taken up in randomized block design with five legume crops (green gram, black gram, cowpea, soybean and sunn hemp) as intercrops in sugarcane under wide row of planting (150 cm) along with sole sugarcane as control during 2016-2017 at ICAR-Sugarcane Breeding Institute, Coimbatore. Among the different intercropping systems followed, the yield attributes were nonsignificant except the number of millable cane (NMC/ha). The NMC recorded with sugarcane ? soybean was significantly higher (116.5 thousands/ha) than control. Sugarcane intercropped with soybean has recorded significantly higher cane yield of 122.82 t/ha, followed by sugarcane intercropped with sunn hemp (117.31 t/ha) and black gram (116.38 t/ha), while sole crop of sugarcane has recorded the lowest cane yield of 74.30 t/ha. Among the five legume intercrops in sugarcane, sugarcane ? soybean has recorded higher cane equivalent yield (CEY) of 132.0 t/ha, followed by sugarcane ? green gram (119.4 t/ha). Sugarcane ? sunn hemp has recorded higher LER of 1.39, followed by green gram (1.37) and soybean (1.21) when compared to sole crop of sugarcane. Weed smothering efficiency (WSE) was significantly higher in sugarcane ? cowpea (36.3%) intercropping system followed by sunn hemp (32.3%) and soybean (32.0%) over the sole sugarcane (control). The highest gross return (Rs. 376,243/ha) was obtained from sugarcane ? soybean followed by sugarcane ? green gram (Rs. 340,242/ha), and it was lowest in sole sugarcane (Rs. 211,771/ha). Similarly, highest benefit-cost ratio (1.83) was observed in sugarcane ? soybean, while lowest in sole sugarcane (1.06). On the basis of cane yield, cane equivalent yield and returns per rupee of investment, it is inferred that, among all the cropping systems, sugarcane ? soybean found to be most profitable under wide row of planting than cultivation of sole sugarcane. Keywords Sugarcane Á Yield parameters Á Quality parameters Á Cane yield Á CEY Á LER Á WSE Á Benefit-cost ratio Recently, there is sustained thrust to increase the agricultural productivity through more intensive cropping systems. Long-duration crop like sugarcane because of its initial slow growth can comfortably accommodate shortduration crops in between the rows, which in turn improve overall productivity and income to the farmers. It helps diversification of crop production to fulfill diversified need of farmers. It is well known that sugarcane is grown in rows ranging in width from 60 to 120 cm. Due to labor shortage, there exists always a force for farm mechanization. Under this circumstance, the sugarcane cultivation and planting width have been modified (wide row 150 cm) so as to facilitate the mechanical harvesting, and this wide row system also paves way for intercrops during early stage (0-90 days). The productivity of sugarcane can be improved through several agronomic management practices such as efficient water conservation measures  With the aim of evaluating the agronomic response of sugarcane-pulses intercropping system, an experiment was taken up with five legume crops (green gram, black gram, cowpea, soybean and sunn hemp) as intercrops in sugarcane under wide row of planting along with sole sugarcane as control during 2016-2017 at ICAR-Sugarcane Breeding Institute farm (11°N latitude and 77°E longitude at an altitude of 427 above mean sea level), Coimbatore, in randomized block design (RBD). Meteorological data were collected and are presented in Fig.  1 . During the cropping period, the maximum temperature ranged from 34.0 to 21.5 °C. The total rainfall received was 326.5 mm in 29 rainy days. Sugarcane chip bud settlings were raised, and 40-day-old seedlings were field transplanted at 60-cm spacing within the rows under wide row system of planting (150 cm). The experimental site is taxonomically classified as Typic Haplustalf, sandy loam in texture with available major nutrient content ranged from 228 kg/ha N, 40 kg/ ha P and 637 kg/ha K. The fertilizer recommendation for sugarcane (280:62.5:120 kg N/P 2 O 5 /K 2 O kg/ha) was applied as per schedule, i. e., 62.5 kg/ha P 2 O 5 as basal dose in the furrows prior to planting and N and K 2 O at 45th and 90th day of planting, while for the intercrops, 50% of the recommended doses of fertilizers were applied in terms of N/P 2 O 5 /K 2 O kg/ha (25:50:25 for green gram, black gram and cowpea, 20:40:20 for soybean); no fertilizer was applied to sunn hemp. Sugarcane (main crop) was planted at 150 cm spacing in the furrows, and intercrops were sown on both sides of the ridges on the third day after planting sugarcane. Irrigation and plant protection measures were taken up as per recommendation. Sunn hemp was harvested and incorporated in situ in the sugarcane furrows before flowering. The intercrops were harvested at maturity. The processed grains were dried and weighed, and the grain yield was expressed in kg ha -1 . Similarly in the case of sugarcane also, yield parameters such as cane height, cane diameter, number of internodes per cane and number of millable canes were recorded prior to harvest. Total cane weight of ten selected canes was taken, and the mean single cane weight was calculated and expressed in kg. These sample canes were crushed in a sugarcane crusher, and the extracted juice was used for analysis. Brix percent (total solids) was estimated by Brix hydrometer. Sucrose percent was determined by Horne's lead sub-acetate clarification  Weed smothering efficiency % ð Þ ¼ W 1 ÀW 2 W 1 Â 100; where W 1 dry weight of weeds from sole crop stand plots and W 2 dry weight of weeds from the intercropped plots. Record of all inputs used, labor employed, etc., was maintained separately for main crop and intercrops, and the economics for each intercropping system were worked out. The data collected during the investigation were statistically analyzed using statistical software (AGRESS). The significant difference, among the treatments, was worked out at 5% probability and based on which the results have been interpreted. The pattern of resource utilization of different cropping system and their effect on yield and quality parameters (Table  1 ), yield advantages and economics are presented in Table  2 . The treatment mean differences for yield attributes were nonsignificant among the different intercropping systems followed except the number of millable cane (NMC/ha). The NMC recorded with sugarcane ? soybean was significantly higher (116.5 9 10 3 /ha) than control. Moreover, all the intercropping systems have recorded significantly higher NMC than sole crop of sugarcane. Similar result has been obtained by  The results on the performance of different intercropping systems with reference to yield and economics are presented in Table  2 . The cane yield under sugarcane intercropped with soybean has recorded significantly higher yield of 122.82 t/ha, followed by sugarcane intercropped with sunn hemp (117.31 t/ha) and black gram (116.38 t/ha), while sole crop of sugarcane has recorded the lowest cane yield of 74.30 t/ha. The highest cane yield in intercropping system primarily attributed to complementarity effect of legumes by way of addition of organic matter and N fixation, which in turn contributed to the N availability to the main crop of sugarcane. The results are in accordance with  Among the five legume intercrops in sugarcane, sugarcane ? soybean has recorded higher cane equivalent yield (CEY) of 132.0 t/ha, followed by sugarcane ? green gram (119.4 t/ha). This might be due to the higher cane yield as well as additional grain yield of soybean in this cropping system. Besides, it is also important to note that the soils in which are either grown or incorporated contain enough and suitable forms of phosphoric acid, potash, lime and nitrogen  Weed control is one of the delicate problems in intercropping systems. All the presently effective chemicals for sugarcane are harmful to leguminous intercrops. However, certain herbicides have been found to be useful which can be safely applied. Added to this, certain intercrops are very effective in smothering the weeds. Weed smothering efficiency is an appropriate index to measure the efficacy of weed control, which indicates the comparative magnitude of reduction in weed dry matter, and was highly influenced by different intercropping systems. Among the different pulses intercrops, weed smothering efficiency (Fig.  2 ) was significantly higher in sugarcane ? cowpea (36.3%) intercropping system followed by sunn hemp (32.3%) and soybean (32.0%) over the sole sugarcane (control). This is due to the fact that fast growing intercrops often smother the weed population compared with sole crops. It was also reported that intercropping maize with legumes reduced weed density compared with pure stand of maize due to less availability of light for weeds germination and growth and weed smothering efficiency of legumes  The economic benefits from different intercropping systems were compared with the sole sugarcane. The data revealed that all the intercrop treatments gave higher gross return than sole sugarcane. The highest gross return (3 76.2/ha) was obtained from sugarcane ? soybean, followed by sugarcane ? green gram (`340.2/ha), and it was lowest in sole sugarcane (`211.8/ha -1 ). Similarly, the highest benefit-cost ratio (1.83) was recorded in sugarcane ? soybean, while lowest in sole sugarcane (1.06). Due to high productivity from main crop as well as intercrop in cropping system as compared to sole crop of sugarcane, farmers could able to realize greater returns  @ Values in parentheses are cane equivalent of intercrop yields (t/ha) Sugar Tech
As an important resource of sugar and renewable bio-fuel, sugarcane plays a vital role in socio-economy in China which is ranked as the third sugarcane producer in the world with more than 70% of the sugarcane production from Guangxi Province  for example, about 400-800 kg N, 150-300 kg P 2 O 5 , and 250-500 kg K 2 O are incorporated into sugarcane field yearly, which are about several times of those in Brazil or India  Intercropping refers to the agronomic tactic that grows two or more crops in the same farmland to establish a multi-community of crops  In Chinese agricultural history, crop residue recycling also played a very important role in promoting crop production. However, the nutrient supplement function of crop residue recycling has ever been ignored for a long time because of the generalization of chemical fertilizer. Previous research indicated the combination of chemical fertilizer and crop residue could promote soil improvement, sugarcane growth, and yield formation.  Guangxi Academy of Agricultural Sciences, China, has been focusing on the breeding of green manure crops since the 1980s. New mung bean varieties bred by this institute not only can produce grain and provide nutrients, but also possess many merits such as quick growth, big biomass, and short growth period which may significantly benefit sugarcane when it is intercropped with the crop. It should greatly promote soil amelioration and sustainable development of sugarcane industry. The objective of this research is to (1) determine the effects of sugarcane and mung bean intercropping and mung bean residue recycling on the growth of sugarcane, the accumulation of N, P, K, and dry matter in the aboveground parts of sugarcane, the availability of the N, P, K, and organic matter in soil, and the decomposition characteristics of mung bean residue after recycling and then (2) provide practical support for the sugarcane production in Guangxi. 
 
 A 2-year field experiment was performed in a farmland with continuous sugarcane growing history in Wuming County of Guangxi Province, China (23°17.043 0 N, 108°8.891 0 E), in 2015 and 2016. Eight treatments of the combinations of two intercropping modes and four fertilizer dosages of N-P 2 O 5 -K 2 O (Table  1 ) were arranged in a randomized complete block design with 3 replications of blocks. Each block contained eight plots of 42 m 2 each which contained 5 rows of sugarcane with a row length of 7 m and row spacing of 1.2 m, respectively. The two intercropping modes were mono-cropping of sugarcane (M) and intercropping of sugarcane and mung bean plus mung bean crop residue recycling (I).The four levels of fertilizer dosage were regular fertilization with 330-225-375 kg/ha N-P 2 O 5 -K 2 O (R), reduction of N to 70% of regular fertilization (N), reduction of P 2 O 5 to 70% of regular fertilization (P), and reduction of K 2 O to 70% of regular fertilization (K). The mixture of compound fertilizer (15-15-15), calcium magnesium phosphate, potassium sulfate, and urea that equal 330-225-375 kg/ha N-P 2 O 5 -K 2 O was considered as regular fertilization dosage for sugarcane. The fertilizer mixture was applied to soil as basic fertilization at an amount of 112.5-112.5-112.5 kg/ ha N-P 2 O 5 -K 2 O for all fertilizer dosage sand as top dressing at the residual amount of each fertilizer dosage. Mung bean was harvested, and then, its residue was returned as mulch of sugarcane or buried into soil at 10 cm depth before sugarcane elongating stage (Table  1 ). The soil in the farmland was of lateritic red soil which contained 0.108% total N, 0.111% total P, 0.217% total K, 29.98 g/kg organic matter, pH 5.19, 108.6 mg/kg available N, 15.5 mg/kg available P and 125.6 mg/kg available K. The sugarcane variety used for the field study was YT 93-159 bred by Guangzhou Sugarcane and Cane sugar Research Institute, Guangdong, China, and the mung bean variety was bred by Agricultural Resources and Environmental Research Institute, Guangxi Academy of Agricultural Sciences, China. 
 After harvest, the crop residue of mung bean was cut into pieces of 3 cm in length, mixed sufficiently, and then packed into 42 nylon bags (U1 mm). Each bag contained 300 g chopped mung bean residue. Half of the bags were put on soil surface, and the other half of the bags were buried into soil at the depth of 10 cm between two Sugar Tech sugarcane rows. Three bags from each burial mode were randomly retrieved and brought back to the laboratory on June 17, July 5, July 29, August 30, October 27, December 3, 2015, and January 21, 2016, respectively. To improve the results of the data, the residues from three bags of each treatment at each sampling time were well mixed to determine the dry matters and contents of N, P, and K in the decomposed mung bean residue. 
 Sugarcane planting was carried out on March 1, 2015, and March 12, 2016, respectively. Before planting, basic fertilizer was applied to planting furrows plowed into 50 cm in width and 30 cm in depth, and then mixed with soil. Sugarcane seed cane setts with two buds were then were placed in a triangle shape and covered with soil for 5 cm thick. The density of sugarcane seed cane setts was about 50,000 buds/ha. After planting of sugarcane, two rows of mung bean were planted with row spacing of 40 cm. Two mung bean seeds were sewed in one cave prepared every 20 cm long without any fertilizer. Mung bean harvesting and the crop residue recycling and sugarcane ridging were carried out simultaneously on June 5, 2015, and June 10, 2016, respectively. Sugarcane crops were harvested on January 12, 2016, and December 17, 2016, respectively. 
 Biomass and nutrient content of mung bean, plant height, stalk diameter, Brix in juice, cane yield, and N, P, and K in the aboveground parts of sugarcane were tested, respectively, among which stalk diameter and Brix in juice were calculated from average values of upper, middle, and under parts of sugarcane stalk. Surface soil was randomly sampled to determine the physical and chemical properties. Analyses were done following the methods described by  
 The nutrients accumulated in aboveground parts of sugarcane were calculated by the following formula: Y ¼ X n i¼1 W i Â C i where Y = nutrients accumulation in plant, I = different organs of plant (n = 3 which included root, stalk, and leaf), W i = dry matter in different organs, and C i = nutrient content in different organs. Levene statistics for the homogeneity of variances of the data, one-way ANOVA, and post hoc multiple comparisons by Duncan were performed in SPSS 19.0 (IBM Corp). 
 
 Mung bean intercropped with sugarcane accumulated a great deal of nutrition from soil without fertilization (Table  2 ). There were no effects of fertilizer treatments on the accumulation of dry matter (F 3,20 = 0.22, P [ 0.05), N (F 3,20 = 0.12, P [ 0.05), P 2 O 5 (F 3,20 = 0.16, P [ 0.05), and K 2 O (F 3,20 = 0.36, P [ 0.05) in mung bean; however,   in sugarcane in all the treatments and mung bean intercropping and mung bean residue recycling system were higher than those in the sugarcane mono-cropping system in 2 years (Table  3 ). The stalk diameter (F 1,46 = 32.62, P \ 0.0001), Brix (F 1,46 = 9.97, P \ 0.05), and cane yield (F 1,46 = 18.63, P \ 0.0001) were higher in 2015 than in 2016. In the sugarcane mono-cropping system, the stalk height, stalk diameter, Brix, and cane yield in sugarcane in the regular fertilization treatment were higher than those in all other fertilization treatments, but no differences were found among the N, P, and K reduction treatments except Brix in 2015, and differences were found among the N, P, and K reduction treatments except cane yield in 2016.   3 ). In the sugarcane and mung bean intercropping and mung bean residue recycling system, the stalk height, stalk diameter, Brix, and cane yield in sugarcane in the regular fertilization treatment were higher than those in all other fertilization treatments. The stalk height and Brix in K reduction treatment were higher than those in the N and P reduction treatments, but no difference in these two indexes was found between the N and P reduction treatments. However, no differences of stalk diameter and cane yield were found among the N, P, and K reduction treatments. The stalk height, stalk diameter, Brix, and cane yield in sugarcane ranged from 301. 90-342.7 cm, 30.93-34.55 mm,  19.10-20.90 Bx o , and 93.93-122.44 t/ha in 2015 and  298.50-330.30 cm, 26.73-29.21 mm, 17.80-19.90 Bx o , and 76.97-101.83 t/ha in 2016, respectively (Table  3 ). 
 The aboveground dry matter (F 1,46 = 26.22, P \ 0.0001), N (F 1,46 = 24.16, P \ 0.0001), P (F 1,46 = 21.47, P \ 0.0001) and K (F 1,46 = 24.27, P \ 0.0001) accumulations in sugarcane were higher in all the treatment combinations in sugarcane and mung bean intercropping and mung bean residue recycling system than those in the sugarcane mono-cropping system in 2 years. The aboveground dry matter (F 1,46 = 16.78, P \ 0.0001), N (F 1,46 = 12.69, P = 0.001), P (F 1,46 = 10.23, P = 0.002), and K (F 1,46 = 6.73, P = 0.013) accumulation in sugarcane was higher in 2015 than 2016 (Table  4 ). In the sugarcane mono-cropping system, the aboveground dry matter, N, P and K accumulations were higher under regular fertilization condition than those under other fertilization conditions, but no differences were detected among the N, P, and K reduction treatments in both years.     1  Sugar Tech In the sugarcane and mung bean intercropping and mung bean residue recycling system, the aboveground dry matter, N, P, and K accumulations were different in the fertilization treatments and followed the order of regular fertilization [K reduction [ or = N reduction [ P reduction. The aboveground dry matter, N, P, and K accumulations ranged from 29.  4 ). 
 The available N (F 1,46 = 61.33, P \ 0.0001), P (F 1,46 = 34.76, P \ 0.0001), K (F 1,46 = 149.16, P \ 0.0001), and organic matter (F 1,46 = 244.66, P \ 0.0001) in soil of intercropping and residue recycling system were higher than those in the mono-cropping system in 2 years (Table  5 ).No differences in these four parameters (P [ 0.05) were found in 2 years. In the sugarcane mono-cropping field, the available N in soil ranged from 109.  5 ). In the sugarcane and mung bean intercropping and mung bean residue recycling fields, there were differences in available N (P \ 0.05) and P (P \ 0.05), but no differences in available K (P [ 0.05) and organic matter (P [ 0.05) in soil among all the fertilizer treatments in both years. The available N ranged from 119.40-156.00 and 126.30-156.00 mg/kg in 2015 and 2016, respectively. The available N was the lowest in the N reduction treatments and the highest in the regular fertilization treatment in both years. The available P in soil ranged from  5 ). 
 The decomposition of dry matter and N in mung bean residue followed a similar pattern. There was no obvious difference between soil surface and underground decomposition from the beginning of the burial up to October 27, 2015, and the decomposition of dry matter and N on soil surface was faster than those occurred in underground thereafter (Figs.  1  and 2 ). On October 27, 2015, the decomposition rate of dry matter in mung bean residue was 27.97 and 25.49% on soil surface and in underground, respectively. After sugarcane harvest, the decomposition rate of dry matter in mung bean residue was 55.11 and 40.36% on soil surface and in underground, respectively. As on October 27, 2015, the N decomposition rate in mung bean residue was 47.11 and 44.91% on soil surface and in underground, respectively. On January 21, 2016, the N decomposition rate in mung bean residue was 67.45 and 58.59% on soil surface and in underground, respectively. The decomposition rate of P in mung bean residue showed a similar pattern on soil surface and in underground before July 29, 2015. From July 29 to December 3, 2015, the decomposition rate of P in mung bean residue on soil surface was slower than that in underground. On July 29 and October 27, 2015, the decomposition rate of P in mung bean residue on soil surface was 13.95 and 31.98%, while that in underground soil was 17.4 and 45.93%, respectively. Conversely, from December 3, 2015, to January 21, 2016, the decomposition rate of P in mung bean residue on soil surface was 50.58%, which was higher than that of 56.98% in underground soil where mung bean residue was buried (Fig.  3 ). The decomposition rates of K in mung bean residue on soil surface and in underground soil showed constant patterns during the entire burial period. The K decomposition rate in mung bean residue on soil surface was slightly faster than that buried in soil (Fig.  4 ). On October 27, 2015, and January 21, 2016, the K decomposition rate in mung bean residue on soil surface was 80.00 and 93.55%, while that buried in soil was 76.49 and 89.31%, respectively. Overall, the decomposition rates of different elements in mung bean residue followed a sequence as K [ N[ P[ dry matter. Higher decomposition rates were observed on the surface cover mode compared to the deep burial mode of mung bean residue  
 The results in the present study indicated that sugarcane and mung bean intercropping and mung bean residue recycling could enhance the growth and yield of sugarcane,  
 
 Above ground Underground Fig.  3  The characteristics of P degradation in mung bean residue on the surface of soil and buried in soil at 10 cm the accumulation of dry matter, N, P, and K in aboveground parts of sugarcane, and the availability of N, P, K, and organic matter in soil as well. These are consistent with the reports from other researches that intercropping of gramineous and leguminous crops could increase the production of crops and improve soil quality. For instance,  Mung bean is a broadly accepted food in Guangxi. Intercropping mung bean in sugarcane field would be a good resource for mung bean supply in this area. It would increase the economical benefit from per unit of the sugarcane field. Meanwhile, the results in the present study showed that a great deal of dry matter, N, P, and K were accumulated in the mung bean straw, and especially the average amount of K 2 O accumulated in the straw was 348.70 kg/ha which is about 70% of the highest K fertilization dosage in Guangxi sugarcane farmland. By the time of sugarcane harvest, 93.55% of K in the mung bean residue to soil surface degraded and recycled to soil which would be available for sugarcane growth. These results also implied the reduction of K to 70% of the regular fertilization dosage to sugarcane land imposed less impact on the growth and production of sugarcane, which suggested that we may reduce the total amount of K application in practice to lower the financial cost and the environmental stress from fertilization in sugarcane production. However, even though the sugarcane and mung bean intercropping and mung bean crop residue recycling could improve the N and P accumulation in aboveground parts of sugarcane, and the N and P availability in soil, it could not override the negative effects of 30% reduction of N and P fertilization. It does not coincide with the conclusion that leguminous crops intercropping and crop residue recycling brought about similar production of sugarcane with half N after crop fertilization in sugarcane field  
 In summary, it is concluded as follows. 1. The intercropping of sugarcane and mung bean, and mung bean crop residue recycling not only stimulate the growth of sugarcane, accumulation of dry matter, N, P, and K in the aboveground parts of sugarcane, but also improve the availability of N, P, K and organic matter in soil. 2. The mung bean grown in the intercropping system can accumulate a great deal of dry matter, N, P, and K in the mung bean straw, and especially the average amount of K 2 O accumulated in the straw was 348.70 kg/ha which is about 70% of the highest K fertilization dosage (500 kg/ha) in Guangxi sugarcane farmland. 3. The decomposition rates of dry matter, N, P, and K in mung bean crop residue on soil surface were slightly higher than those buried in deep soil which ranged   Based on the above, the sugarcane and mung bean intercropping and mung bean crop residue recycling could be a proper cultivation model popularized in Guangxi with mung bean residue applied on the surface of soil and reduction of K fertilizer.
India occupies an important position amongst the sugar producing countries of the world. Of the various factors responsible for decline in sugarcane yield and recovery, losses caused by the pests are of prime importance. Among the insect pests of sugarcane stem borers, leaf hoppers and termites are the most important. Early shoot borer, Chilo infuscatellus Snell is an important pest of sugarcane in almost all cane growing areas, causing growth losses about 20 per cent in yield and 15 per cent in sugar recovery. Its infestation causes mortality of mother shoots (60%), primary tillers (43%) and tertiary tillers (35%), thereby reducing the yield at the rate of 3.5 per cent per 5 per cent increase in incidence. During summer months its infestation reaches a mean density which often exceeds threshold levels under water scarcity condition and causes extensive dead hearts necessitating insecticide application for its control. For controlling ESB many methods have been adopted, among, which chemical, cultural and biological methods are important. The generally accepted method of ESB control over the years has been pesticides. However, pesticides are not only expensive but also have many harmful effects. The control of ESB in the sugarcane was largely conducted with the application of insecticides. These insecticides in liquid or dry formulations have been suggested as sett treatment in furrows before the first irrigation. The success of such treatment is highly variable. Intercropping is one of the suggested controls to refrain ESB access to the sugarcane setts and seedlings. It has become the subject of increased interest primarily because of its reported advantages in decreasing pest population and additional cash benefits. Many workers have reported on the potential of crop diversification as suppression method for the control of early shoot borer in sugarcane. Intercropping is useful to improve the economics of sugarcane crop. The intercrops were successful in fetching additional income to the farmers, in addition to that from sugarcane. Moreover, the addition of organic matter in many forms in the soil can help to prevent the damage to the crop. An attempt was made to study the potential of intercropping as a non-chemical control technique involving different inter crops in developing effective pest controlling strategies. 
 Field experiments were conducted at Sugarcane Research Station, Vuyyuru. A highly sucrose rich sugarcane variety, 93V297 was planted alone (mono crop) and inter cropped with leguminous crops viz., cow pea, cluster bean, black gram, green gram, soya bean, sun hemp and ground nut. All the legumes seed used were local varieties. There were eight treatment combinations, tested in a randomized block design with three replications. Plot size was 12 meters length of 12 rows. Plantings were taken up after formation of ridges and furrows at 80 cm apart. Sugarcane setts were planted in the furrows and intercrops were 80cm in two rows on either side of the ridge. All the agronomical practices except plant protection measures were followed to harvest a good crop. The dead heart counts were recorded on 45th, 60th, 90th and 120th day after planting and then cumulative per cent incidence of shoot borer worked out. The shoot borer continues as inter node borer after the information of internodes. Hence, the data pertaining to inter node borer was recorded on cane basis and nodal basis at the time of harvest. Cane yield and juice quality were also recorded at the time of harvest. 
 In general, all the intercrops viz., cow pea, cluster bean, black gram, green gram, soya bean, sun hemp and groundnut gave suppressing effect on dead hearts due to shoot borer and per cent incidence and intensity due to inter node borer. Lowest per cent incidence of dead hearts due to shoot borer was recorded in sugarcane + black gram (13.17%) followed by sugarcane + cow pea (13.60%) and sugarcane + soybean (13.66%). Highest per cent incidence of shoot borer was recorded in control plot i.e., sole crop of sugarcane (25.79%) (Table1). The per cent incidence and intensity of inter node borer varied from 75.00 (sugarcane + soya bean) to 93.33 (sole crop of sugarcane) and 5.24 (sugarcane +ground nut) to 13.59 (sole crop of sugarcane). Similar results of reduction in pest incidence with intercrops were also reported by  
 Intercropping is the agricultural practice of cultivating two or more crops in the same space at the same time. A practice often associated with sustainable agriculture and organic farming It benefits crop yields, controls some kind of pests, increase crop productivity per unit area of land and other agronomic benefits. For an intercrop combination to be biologically advantageous, agro techniques such as fertilizer application, seed rate of inter crops and base crop, and selection of suitable genotypes must be taken care of to reduce the depressing effect of inter crops on sugarcane and to increase the productivity and profitability of the inter cropping system.
Sugarcane (Saccharum spp. hybrid complex) is an important commercial crop as 78% of world sugar is produced from sugarcane. India ranks second, after Brazil, in area and production of sugarcane. India harvested 350 million tonnes (MT) of sugarcane and 26.3 MT of sugar from 5.0 million hectares (MHa) during 2011e12  Intercropping has the potential to increase productivity, monetary returns, and resource utilization. It has been shown to produce higher and more stable yields in a wide range of crop combinations (Lammerts van  Research has shown that intercrops are most productive when component crops differ greatly in growth duration  In an intercropping system, greater complexity of weed management can be a major deterrent to its adoption by farmers. Yield reductions due to weeds, both in sole and intercropped sugarcane, have been estimated to vary from 26 to 75%  
 
 A field experiment was undertaken during 2010e11 and 2011e12 at different locations within the same field, at the research farm of the Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana, India. The soil was loamy sand with pH of 7.3 and EC of 0.25 ds m À1 , low in organic carbon (0.35%) and available N (279.4 kg ha À1 ), medium in available P (39.7 kg ha À1 ) and K (209 kg ha À1 ). Total rainfall received during the first and second cropping seasons was 1333.6 and 508.3 mm, respectively. The experiment was established in a split-plot design with three replications. Four cropping systems (sole sugarcane, sugarcane-cabbage, sugarcane-peas and sugarcane-garlic) were allocated to the main-plots. Six weed control treatments in the subplots included oxyfluorfen (0.176 kg & 0.234 kg ha À1 ), pendimethalin (0.562 kg & 0.75 kg ha À1 ), hand-weeding (30 & 60 days after sowing (DAS) in cabbage and peas; 30, 60 & 100 DAS in garlic) and weedy check. The size of main-plot was 27 m Â 5 m, which was divided into six sub-plots of 4.5 m Â 5 m. In both the years, sugarcane and intercrops were sown in the second fortnight of October. Sugarcane (cv. CoJ 85) was planted in 90 cm row spacing using 50,000 three budded setts ha À1 and one row of cabbage cv. Golden Acre (4e5 week old seedlings transplanted), two rows of peas cv. Punjab 89 (55 kg seed ha À1 ) and three rows of garlic cv. PG 17 (3500 kg cloves ha À1 ) were planted the next day in the inter-row spaces of sugarcane. Recommended doses of fertilizers were applied to sugarcane (225 kg N ha À1 ) and intercrops, cabbage (N:P 2 O 5 :K 2 O 62.5:31.2:31.2 kg ha À1 ), peas (N:P 2 O 5 35:25 kg ha À1 ) and garlic (N:P 2 O 5 65.5:33 kg ha À1 ). N was applied in three and two split applications for sugarcane and intercrops, respectively, while P 2 O 5 and K 2 O were applied at the time of sowing. Herbicides were applied using a flat fan nozzle boom with an output of 500 L ha À1 immediately after sowing of peas and garlic, and two days before the transplanting of cabbage seedlings. 
 Weed biomass was assessed by taking two random samples (50 cm Â 50 cm) in each plot at 35, 70, and 105 DAS of the intercrops. Plant samples were weighed after drying in an oven at 70 C for 72 h. Growth and yield parameters of intercrops were recorded from 10 randomly selected plants in each plot. Peas were harvested in three pickings at the edible maturity stage of the crop. The total weight of pods from all the pickings was added to determine pod yield of peas. Garlic was harvested at maturity when the tops had dried. Total weight of garlic cloves was recorded from each plot. The total number of sugarcane plants in a plot was counted after harvesting of intercrops. Total sugarcane shoot numbers were counted at the maximum tillering stage in June and at millable stalks stage in November. The final yields were determined by hand harvesting 13.5 m 2 area from the centre rows in each plot in December. Cane equivalent yield was calculated by multiplying the average market price of intercrops with their yield and dividing by sugarcane price. Benefit cost ratio (B:C) was derived by dividing the gross returns from each cropping system by the total cost of production and was used for comparing the profitability of each intercropping system as compared to sole sugarcane, and of different weed control treatments. 
 Analyses of Variance (ANOVA) were performed with SAS v. 9.2 (SAS Institute, 2009). Means were separated at P 0.05 with Tukey's test when the treatment effects were significant. Weed biomass data were square-root transformed before performing ANOVA to normalise the distribution of residuals. 
 
 In 2010e11, weed dry matter (DM) did not differ between sole sugarcane and intercropping systems, except at 105 DAS when sugarcane-peas and sugarcane-garlic had a lower weed DM than sole sugarcane (P < 0.05) (Table  1 ). During 2011e12, sole sugarcane had greater weed DM than sugarcane-peas at 70 DAS. Among weed control treatments, hand-weeding had the lowest weed DM from 35 to 105 DAS. Oxyfluorfen 0.234 kg ha À1 reduced weed DM by 45e73% as compared to the weedy check at 70 DAS; pendimethalin 0.75 kg ha À1 was less effective than oxyfluorfen as indicated by weed DM reduction of 29e64.5% relative to the weedy check. 
 Oxyfluorfen and pendimethalin had no adverse effects on seedling emergence of peas and garlic and the establishment of cabbage transplants (data not shown). In the pea intercrop, higher doses of both herbicides produced a similar number of seeds pod À1 as the hand-weeding treatment, but higher seeds pod À1 than their respective lower doses (Table  2 ). In 2010e11, all herbicide and hand-weeding treatments produced higher pod yield of peas than the weedy check (P < 0.05). In 2011e12, these differences were only significant at the higher doses of herbicides. Highest pod yield of peas (8.17e8.96 t ha À1 ) was obtained in pendimethalin 0.75 kg ha À1 , which was higher than the weedy check (5.58e6.54 t ha À1 ) but similar to oxyfluorfen 0.234 kg ha À1 and hand-weeding. In cabbage intercropping, the head weight increased in all herbicide treatments as compared to the weedy check (Table  2 ). In 2010e11, all herbicide treatments produced higher cabbage head yield than the weedy check while in 2011e12 only the higher dose of oxyfluorfen had greater yield than the weedy check (P < 0.05). In garlic intercropping system, pendimethalin 0.75 kg ha À1 had the highest number of cloves per bulb, which were similar to the hand-weeding treatment but higher than the weedy check (Table  2 ). Oxyfluorfen 0.234 kg, pendimethalin 0.75 kg ha À1 and hand weeding produced similar garlic yield (7.27e7.58 t ha À1 ; 6.94e7.23 t ha À1 ), which was significantly higher (P < 0.05) than the lower doses of both herbicides. All herbicide treatments produced higher garlic yield than the weedy check (3.89e4.74 t ha À1 ). 
 Sugarcane was very tolerant to inter-specific competition. Variable level of weed competition in different intercrop and weed control treatments did not affect the cane yield (Table  3 ). This was supported by the data on sugarcane plant density, millable canes ha À1 and single cane weight, which were all unaffected by the intercropping and weed control treatments (P > 0.05; data not shown). Cane equivalent yield was calculated by using commodity prices to compare sole sugarcane with intercrop treatments. In both years of this study, the intercrop of sugarcane-garlic produced higher cane equivalent yield than sole sugarcane and other intercropping systems (P < 0.05; Table  3 ). However, sugarcane-cabbage and sugarcane-peas produced significantly greater cane equivalent yield than sole sugarcane in 2011e12 but not in 2010e11 (Table  3 ). Amongst weed control treatments, hand weeding and oxyfluorfen 0.234 kg ha À1 produced higher cane equivalent yield than the weedy check in 2010e11. In the second year, hand weeding was the only treatment with significantly higher cane equivalent yield than the weedy check (Table  3 ). Over the two years, oxyfluorfen 0.234 kg (118.5e128.9 t ha À1 ) and pendimethalin 0.75 kg ha À1 (119.6e122.9 t ha À1 ) had the highest cane equivalent yield, which was higher than the weedy check (106.4e108.1 t ha À1 ), and similar to hand-weeding treatment (Table  3 ). Sugarcane-garlic intercropping system had a much higher average cost of production (USD 3034 ha À1 ) than the other two intercropping systems (USD 2477e2694 ha À1 ) and sole sugarcane (USD 2211 ha À1 ) (Table  3 ). However, all intercropping systems had higher gross and net returns than sole sugarcane. Sugarcane-garlic intercrop had the highest net returns (USD 4384 ha À1 ) as well as the highest benefit cost ratio (2.45). The net monetary returns from intercropping systems of sugarcane-peas and sugarcane-cabbage varied from USD 2873e3094 ha À1 as compared to USD 1648 ha À1 for sole sugarcane. Therefore, intercropping of short duration vegetables in sugarcane increased the net monetary returns by 1.74e2.66 fold or by USD 1225 to USD 2736 ha À1 , as compared to sole sugarcane. Among weed control treatments, hand weeding incurred higher expenditure (USD 2667 ha À1 ) than herbicide treatments (USD 2586e2610 ha À1 ). Net returns from herbicide treatments that provided effective weed control were similar to hand-weeding. Oxyfluorfen 0.234 kg ha À1 had a slightly higher net monetary returns (USD 3276 ha À1 ) and B:C (2.26) than the traditional practice of hand-weeding (USD 3197 ha À1 ; 2.20) but both were much better than the weedy check (USD 2530 ha À1 ; 1.99) (Table  3 ). 
 In this study, intercrops did not show any significant weed suppression as compared to sole sugarcane; except in case of peas which recorded significant reduction in weed dry matter at 105 DAS in 2010e11 and at 70 DAS in 2011e12 from sole sugarcane (Table  1 ). Weed suppressive ability of peas has previously been reported by other researchers  Oxyfluorfen and pendimethalin did not cause any visual phytotoxicity symptoms on sugarcane and intercrops, thereby indicating their suitability for use in these intercropping systems. Previous research has also shown crop safety of pre-emergence pendimethalin in field peas  There were some differences in weed tolerance between vegetable intercrops investigated. As compared to hand-weeding, weed competition in weedy plots reduced crop yield by 27e31% in peas, 29e45% in cabbage and by 46e55% in garlic. Garlic is known to lack vigour and produces low leaf area and upright growth  Intercropping sugarcane with cabbage, peas and garlic did not affect its germination and growth parameters such as cane plant density, millable canes and single cane weight. Consequently, none of the intercropping treatments had any negative influence on cane yield (Table  3 ). As the intercrops selected for this study were present in the field for a short duration, sugarcane had sufficient time to fully recover and produce tillers after their harvest. Normally, complementary use of resources occurs when the component species of an intercrop use qualitatively different resources or they use the same resources at different places or at different times  Sugarcane was hand-weeded after the harvest of intercrops in all the treatments, which occurred before the start of active tillering period of sugarcane. Hence weed control treatments imposed in the intercropping phase may not have influenced yield parameters and yield of sugarcane. Weed infestation during the active tillering period of sugarcane (AprileJune) can reduce growth of sugarcane  
 The intercropping of autumn sugarcane with garlic, peas and cabbage did not reduce cane yield, and enhanced the net monetary returns than sole sugarcane. In these intercropping systems, preemergence application of oxyfluorfen 0.234 kg or pendimethalin 0.75 kg ha À1 provided effective weed control and improved overall profitability.
Sugarcane is one of the important commercial crops of India and is cultivated in wider row spacing (75-90 cm). In sub-tropical part of India sugarcane is planted in autumn, spring and late spring seasons. The autumn (October) planted sugarcane gives higher cane yield than spring (February) and late spring (April-May) planted cane  The expansion of irrigated agriculture in northern India has led to displacement of pulses by wheat, rice and maize in large area. In north India area under pulses declined from 10.12 to 8.16 million ha, approximately by 20%  The demand for both edible and non-edible oils is increasing due to different contributing factors like rising income, growing population and expanding urbanization, however, there is an overall decline in the per capita availability of edible oils. The domestic demand for vegetable oils and fats has been rising rapidly at the rate of 6 per cent per annum, but our domestic output has been increasing just by about 2 per cent per annum  A primary and straight mode of increasing diversity of an agro ecosystem is intercropping system that permits interaction amid the individuals of the different crops and varieties. Some important tools for the study and evaluation of intercropping systems are land equivalent ratio (LER), land equivalent coefficient (LEC), area time equivalent ratio (ATER) , aggressivity (A), competitive ratio (CR), actual yield loss (AYL), intercropping advantage (IA) and monetary advantage index (MAI). Higher reduction in cane yield was observed with farmer's practice of intercropping on flat beds and planting of sugarcane after rabi harvest. To minimize the sugarcane yield reduction, bed planter provides the option for mechanized sowing of intercrops besides the saving in labour, water and other inputs. Bed planter offers the way for mechanized sowing of intercrops on the raised beds followed by manual planting of sugarcane in the furrows to minimize the cane yield reduction. In recent past mechanized sowing of various intercrops with bed planter has been proved a boon to the farmers and is gaining popularity among the sugarcane growers because of additional income. To ensure the optimum productivity in an intercropping system, one must ensure that the peak periods of growth of the two crops do not coincide, so that one quick-maturing crop completes its life cycle before the main crop take off. Therefore experiments were conducted with the objective of integration of mechanized intercropping of leguminous crops in autumn planted sugarcane to increase area, production, productivity and profitability of sugarcane and leguminous crops. 
 Field experiments were conducted at CCSHAU, Regional Research Station, Karnal during 2005-06 and 2006-07. The experiment consisted of nine treatments and was conducted in randomized block design with three replications. The treatments were: T 1 : Sole sugarcane (Saccharum officinarum), T 2 : Sugarcane + Chickpea (Cicer arietinum), T 3 : Chickpea followed by summer planting of sugarcane, T 4 : Sugarcane + Lentil (Lens esculenta), T 5 : Lentil followed by summer planting of sugarcane T 6 : Sugarcane+ Pea (Pisum sativum), T 7 : Pea followed by spring planting of sugarcane, T8: Sugarcane + Raya (Brassica juncea), T 9 : Raya followed by spring planting of sugarcane. The soil of the experimental field was clay loam in texture having pH (8.0 and 8.2), low in organic carbon (0.36% and 0.35%), medium in available P (11.5 and 11.2 kg ha -1 ) and low in available K (118.0 and 117.0 kg ha -1 ) during 2005-06 and 2006-07, respectively. Multi-crop bed planter was used for planting of intercrops on beds and sugarcane in furrows. Adjustments were made in the bed planter so as to make beds of 55 cm and row to row distance of 90 cm. Laser leveling of field was done before sowing .The intercrops were sown with the bed planter on beds (55 cm width) i.e. two lines of each intercrop per bed. The seed rate of different intercrops was 50.0, 18.75, 62.5 and 3.13 kg ha -1 for chick pea, lentil, pea and raya, respectively. The two budded cane setts (87,000 ha -1 ) were planted in the furrows (90 cm apart) and covered with 5-7 cm of soil with the help of setts covering tool. Light irrigation was applied in the furrows just after sowing for germination of sugarcane. The sowing of the experiment was done in the 2 nd fortnight of October. The sugarcane variety CoH 56, Pusa Agarni of raya, Arkel of pea, HC-5 of chickpea and L 41-47 of lentil were used during both the years of investigation. Recommended package of practices were followed for the both crops to ensure the good crop stands. Chickpea and lentil were harvested in 1 st week of April (7/4/06 and 6/4/07), pea crop was harvested on 3 rd week of February (20/2/06 and19/2/07) and raya was harvested on 3 rd week of March (18/3/06 and 19/3/07) in both the years. Harvesting of sugarcane was done in the 3 rd week of January (21/1/07 and 20/1/08). Demonstrations on intercropping (Sugarcane + raya at three locations, remaining at single location) were also conducted at farmers' field during  Intercropping efficiency was evaluated by comparing the productivity of a given area of intercropping with that of sole crops using the competition functions described below: The Land Equivalent Ratio (LER) was calculated using Willey formula given in 1979. Land equivalent coefficient (LEC) was calculated using formula suggested by  
 A) Growth and quality parameters of sugarcane: Germination of sugarcane is directly correlated with the crop stand and ultimately the yield of crop. Germination percentage in autumn planted sugarcane was not significantly affected by intercropping (Table  1 ). However, summer planting of sugarcane resulted in significantly lower germination because of higher temperature at the time of planting resulting in moisture depletion. None of the intercrop had any adverse effect on the germination of cane because germination mainly depends on moisture in setts, total sugar content including reducing sugar and temperature.  During 2005-06 tillers in sugarcane reduced significantly due to intercropping of chickpea and raya, whereas, reduction in number of tillers was non-significant due to intercropping during 2006-07. The reduction in tillers may be due to the shading effect created by the intercrop.  In autumn planted sugarcane none of the intercrop reduced cane weight significantly, whereas, planting of sugarcane after harvesting of chickpea and lentil reduced cane weight significantly. Cane yield was not reduced significantly due to intercropping except raya during 2005-06 (Table  2 ). This was due to less number of millable canes when raya was intercropped with sugarcane. Significantly higher cane yield were recorded in intercropping systems as compared to farmers' practice i.e. planting of sugarcane after harvesting of intercrops (summer planting) and this may be due to low germination and lower number of millable canes in summer planting ie planting sugarcane after harvesting of intercrops. Similar results were also reported by  The intercrops yield was almost at par in intercropping treatments compared to their sole crops. This may due to their planting on beds (Table  2 ). Sugarcane has   no adverse effect on intercrops yield.  There was no significant difference in commercial cane sugar percentage (CCS %) due to intercropping in sugarcane during autumn season.  2 ). Similar results were also reported by  
 The per cent incidence of pink borer (Sesamia inferens), shoot borer (Chilo infescatellus), top borer (Scirpophaga excerptalis) and root borer (Emmalocera depressella) remained below economical threshold level (ETL). Shoot borer incidence was higher in chickpea (Table  3 ). This shows that different intercropping systems did not aggravate the insect incidence on sugarcane. Crops grown simultaneously enhance the abundance of predators and parasites, which in turn prevent the build-up of pests, thus minimizing the need of using expensive and dangerous chemical insecticides.  
 Partial LER of sugarcane (LERs) was more than intercrops in sugarcane + lentil and sugarcane + pea intercropping systems with maximum LERs (0.99) when sugarcane was intercropped with pea. Maximum partial LER of intercrops (LERi) and maximum total LER (LERt) was recorded in sugarcane + raya intercropping system (1.91). Lowest LERt (1.81) was recorded in sugarcane + lentil intercropping system (Table  4 ). LERi for all the intercrops was more than 0.5, it indicated disadvantage for sugarcane in intercropping  When the value of LERt is greater than one, the intercropping favors the growth and yield of the species. When LERt is lower than one the intercropping negatively effects the growth and yield of crops grown in mixtures. In all intercropping systems, LERt was greater than unity, thus demonstrating yield advantages for the intercropped plots. Land equivalent coefficient: Land equivalent coefficient (LEC) followed the same pattern as LERt. Maximum LEC (0.91) was recorded in sugarcane + raya and sugarcane + chickpea intercropping system and lowest LEC (0.81) was recorded in sugarcane + lentil intercropping system (Table  4 ). In all intercropping systems, LEC was greater than 0.25, showed that intercropping with stable potentials are superior to their components planted as sole crops on per unit area productivity. This is consistent with the findings of  4 ). 
 In all the treatments, the ATERt values were lesser than LERt values (Table  4 ) indicating the over estimation of resource utilization. ATER is free from problems of over estimation of resource utilization contrary to LER. ATERt values showed an advantage (22-28%) with all intercropping systems than sole cropping with maximum advantage from sugarcane+ chickpea. Higher ATER values of cotton+cowpea have earlier been reported by  
 Partial K values of sugarcane (Ks) was maximum and minimum in sugarcane + pea (160.5) and sugarcane + chickpea (12.1) intercropping systems, respectively. Ks was more than partial K values of intercrops (Ki) in sugarcane + pea and sugarcane + lentil intercropping system indicated that sugarcane was more competitive than pea and lentil intercrops. Ki was maximum in sugarcane + raya (16.3) intercropping system followed by sugarcane + chickpea (15.5) which was more than Ks in both the intercropping systems indicated that raya and chickpea were more competitive than sugarcane. Total K value was maximum and minimum in sugarcane + pea (360.3) and sugarcane + lentil (83.3) intercropping system, respectively (Table  5 ).Total K value of all the intercropping systems was greater than one indicating yield advantage, if the value of K is one there is no yield advantage and if less than one then system has disadvantage. 
 Sugarcane + raya (0.49) and sugarcane + chickpea (0.49) intercropping systems recorded maximum partial aggressivity value for intercrops (Ai) and Ai was lowest in sugarcane + pea (0.26) intercropping system (Table  5 ). This may be due to the differential growth habit of the associated intercrops. The data presented in Table  5  further indicated that the component crops did not compete equally. Regardless of the intercropping systems, there was a negative sign for sugarcane and the positive for intercrops showing that the sugarcane was dominated, while intercrops were dominant. As values were minimum for Sugarcane + raya (-0.49) and sugarcane + chickpea (-0.49) intercropping systems, which indicated that raya and chickpea were the most competitive crop to sugarcane. The aggressivity values were influenced by the intercrops  
 The competitive ratio (CR) is an important tool to know the degree with which one crop competes with the other. Higher CR values for the intercrops (CRi) indicated that all the intercrops were more competitive than sugarcane (Table  5 ). The CRi values were maximum in Sugarcane + raya (1.51) and sugarcane + chickpea (1.51) intercropping systems. These results suggested that among intercrops, chickpea and raya proved to be better competitor as compared to other intercrops, when grown in association with sugarcane. It is evident from the CRi that among all intercrops, lentil and pea were found to be most suitable crops for intercropping with sugarcane. The competitive ratio for sugarcane (CRs) was highest for sugarcane + pea (0.80) intercropping system.  
 The AYL can have positive or negative values indicating an advantage or disadvantage accrued in intercrops when the main objective is to compare yield on per plant basis. Results of AYL showed that intercrops were more dominant than sugarcane in intercropping as values of partial AYL of sugarcane (AYLs) were negative, whereas, intercrops had positive values (Table  5 ) probably due to the negative effects of intercrops LERs: Land equivalent ratio sugarcane , LERi: Land equivalent ratio intercrop , LERt: Land equivalent ratio total ATERs: Area time equivalent ratio sugarcane , ATERi: Area time equivalent ratio intercrop , ATERt: Area time equivalent ratio total LEGUME RESEARCH -An International Journal on sugarcane. Intercropping sugarcane with pea decreased the sugarcane yield by 1.0 % (AYLs = -0.01) and 5.0 % (AYLs = -0.05) when chickpea and raya were intercropped with sugarcane. However, there was increased yield of intercrops in association with sugarcane. Chickpea and raya showed 43 % (AYLi = 0.43) yield advantage in sugarcane + raya and sugarcane + chickpea intercropping systems, and 25 % (AYLi= 0.25) yield advantage in sugarcane + lentil intercropping system over sole cropping. Total values of AYL showed an advantage between 22-38 % from intercropping compared to sole cropping, due to recovery made by intercrops. The actual yield loss index gives more precise information about intercropping than the other indices on the inter-and intra-specific competition and behaviour of the component crops. Quantification of yield loss or gain due to association with other species or variation of plant population could not be obtained through partial LER's, whereas; partial AYL shows yield loss or gain by its sign and as its value  Intercropping advantage: Intercropping advantage (IA) is also an indicator of the economic feasibility of intercropping systems. The values of IA followed the same trend as that of AYL values. The values of partial IA showed that intercropping had economic disadvantage for sugarcane having negative values and advantage from intercrops having positive values in intercropping. Maximum economic disadvantage for sugarcane was observed with sugarcane + chickpea (-80.20) followed by sugarcane + raya (-78.40) intercropping system due to yield loss of sugarcane in these systems. Partial IA values for intercrops (IAi) were positive meant intercrops got certain advantage due to intercropping with sugarcane. Maximum IAi was found in sugarcane + raya (7619.48) intercropping system. The positive values of IA mean that intercrops compensated the yield loss in sugarcane (Table  6 ). Monetary advantage index: Monetary advantage index (MAI) values were positive which showed a definite yield advantage in all intercropping systems compared to sole cropping. The minimum MAI value was obtained from sugarcane + lentil (62382) intercropping system. Whereas, the highest MAI value was obtained from sugarcane + pea ( 75779) intercropping system (Table  6 ) and confirm the results of LER's and other competition indices. These results also support the findings of  Intercropping demonstrations at farmers' field: Perusal of data presented in Table  7  clearly revealed that yield of sugarcane reduced marginally due to intercropping but that was compensated by additional yield of intercrops. Intercropping in sugarcane resulted in higher gross returns,   
 Autumn planting of sugarcane with different intercrops increased the productivity, CCS % of sugarcane and the income of the farmers. Bed planter with minor adjustment helped to make the intercropping system practically possible, economically viable and minimized the yield gaps in cane yield, besides additional income from intercrops. Different intercropping systems did not aggravate the insect incidence on sugarcane. In all intercropping systems, LERt was greater than unity, ATERt values showed an advantage (22-28 %) with all intercropping systems than sole cropping with maximum advantage from sugarcane + chickpea. Higher CR values for the intercrops (CRi) indicated that all the intercrops were more competitive than sugarcane. Total values of AYL showed an advantage between 22-38 % from intercropping compared to sole cropping due to recovery made by intercrops. Intercropping demonstrations at farmer's field also resulted in higher gross returns, returns over variable cost and benefit: cost ratio. The results from the intercropping trials have proved conclusively that crops like pea, chickpea, lentil and raya can be successfully intercropped with autumn planted sugarcane for higher returns to the farmers with better cane quality and improving soil health for sustainable crop production. Members Copy, Not for Commercial Sale Downloaded From IP -14.139.57.98 on dated 29-Jun-2016 
			 www.IndianJournals.com Members Copy, Not for Commercial Sale Downloaded From IP -14.139.57.98 on dated 29-Jun-2016 Volume 39 Issue 3 (2016) 
			 * followed by www.IndianJournals.com Members Copy, Not for Commercial Sale Downloaded From IP -14.139.57.98 on dated 29-Jun-2016 
			 Members Copy, Not for Commercial SaleDownloaded From IP -14.139.57.98 on dated 29-Jun-2016Volume 39 Issue 3 (2016)   
			 www.IndianJournals.com Members Copy, Not for Commercial Sale Downloaded From IP -14.139.57.98 on dated 29-Jun-2016
Sugarcane crop plays a crucial role in Indian economy since it provides raw material to the second largest agro-based industry after cotton. It is estimated that by 2030, India will require to produce more than 520 m t of cane with average recovery of 10.75 per cent (Anonymous 2011). Bourgeoning human population on one hand and progressively shrinking agricultural land availability per capita on the other, warrants temporal and spatial intensification on cropping. Therefore, importance of intercropping and crop diversification has been recognized profitable and economical for combating the future problems. Until recent years, sugarcane crop was cultivated as a single crop, but rapidly increasing population, insufficient food, limited scope for extension of cultivation to new areas, diversified needs of small farmers for food and cash have forced the adoption of intercropping systems. Sugarcane is cultivated with row spacing of 75-90 cm and its growth rate during initial stages (90-100 days) is rather slow, with the leaf canopy providing sufficient uncovered area for growing of other crops to make better use of incident solar energy and rainfall. It entails better utilization of soil moisture, nutrients and solar radiation than sole cropping and brings homogeneity in distribution of income and labour use. In spring sugarcane based cropping systems, growing of moong, urd, and cow pea helps in improving phosphatic fertilizer use efficiency thus making system more sustainable apart from giving additional income  To solve the problem efficiently, sugarcane-based intercropping seems a promising   To minimize the sugarcane yield reduction, bed planter provides the option for mechanized sowing of intercrops besides the saving in labour, water and other inputs. Therefore experiments were conducted with the objective of integration of mechanized intercropping of le-  
 Field experiments were conducted at CCSHAU, Regional Research Station, Karnal during 2006-07 and 2007-08. The experiment consisted of five treatments and was conducted in randomized block design with four replications. The treatments were: T 1 : Sole Sugarcane ( ), T 2 : Sugarcane + Green gram ( ), T 3 : Sugarcane + Black gram ( ), T 4 : Sugarcane + Cowpea ( ) T 5 : Sugarcane + Cluster bean ( ). Sole crop of green gran, black gram, cowpea and cluster bean were also grown to know about different competition functions .The soil of the experimental field was clay loam in texture having pH (8.1 and8.0), low in organic carbon (0.37% and 0.39%), medium in available P (11.9 and 11.0 kg ha -1 ) and medium in available K (126.0 and 127.0 kg ha -1 ) during 2006-07 and 2007-08, respectively. Multi-crop bed planter was used for planting of intercrops on beds and sugarcane in furrows. Adjustments were made in the bed planter so as to make beds of 55 cm and row to row distance of 90 cm (Fig  1 ). Laser leveling of field was done before sowing (Fig  2 ) .The intercrops were sown with the bed planter on beds (55 cm width) two lines of each intercrop per bed (Fig  3 ). The seed rate of different intercrops was 15.0, 15.0, 15.0 and 8.5 kg ha -1 for green gram, black gram, cowpea and cluster bean, respectively. The two budded cane setts (87,000 ha -1 ) were planted in the furrows (90 cm apart) and covered with 5-7 cm of soil with the help of setts covering tool (Fig  5  and 6 ). Light irrigation was applied in the furrows just after planting for germination of sugarcane (Fig  7 ). One more irrigation was applied 10 days after planting of sugarcane. The sowing of the experiment was done in the 2 nd fortnight of  The fertilizer requirements of both the crops were met separately as per recommendation in intercropping. The fertilizer requirement for green gram, black gram, cowpea and cluster bean was met by drilling P 2 O 5 @ 40, 40, 40 and 50 kg ha -1 with the help of bed planter at the time of sowing of these crops respectively, whereas, in case of cowpea and cluster bean 9.3 and 10.4 kg N ha -1 was also applied respectivly in the field before bed making. The source of P 2 O 5 was Diammonium phosphate (DAP). Full doses of phosphorus (50 kg ha -1 ), potash (50 kg ha - 1 ), ZnSo 4 (25 kg ha -1 ) and one third dose of N (50 kg ha -1 ) were applied at the time of sugarcane planting in furrows  In intercrops weeds were controlled with pre-emergence application of pendimethalin 30 EC @ 1.0 kg ha -1 . Gap filling of sugarcane was done after harvesting of intercrops as per requirement. After harvesting of intercrops management of weeds in sugarcane was done by application of atrazine @ 2.0 kg /ha -1 followed by (fb) 2, 4-D Na salt @ 2.0 kg/ha -1 at two to three leaf stage of broad leaf weeds. At harvesting yield data of intercrops was recorded. Sugarcane tillers were counted during August. At harvest of sugarcane crop, data was recorded on millable canes, cane weight, cane yield and commercial cane sugar (CCS%). Green gram and black gram were harvested in 3 rd week of  Sugarcane equivalent yield and total equivalent yield were calculated by using the following formulae: Sugarcane equivalent yield = (Yield of intercrop × rate of intercrop) ÷ rate of sugarcane Total equivalent yield= Sugarcane yield + Sugarcane equivalent yield Returns over variable cost and benefit: cost ratio (B: C ratio) were also worked out to evaluate the economics of the system using the following formula: Returns over variable cost ( -1 ) = Gross returns ( -1 ) -Total variable cost ( -1 ) B:C ratio = Gross returns ( -1 ) ÷ Total variable cost ( -1 ) Intercropping efficiency was evaluated by comparing the productivity of a given area of intercropping with that of sole crops using the competition functions described below: The LER was calculated using the formula LER= {La+Lb} La = (Yab÷Yaa) and Lb = (Yba÷Ybb) where La and Lb are the partial LER for the individual crops, Yab and Yba are the individual crop yields in intercropping; Yaa and Ybb are the individual crop yields in sole cropping  . K = (K x K K {Yab Zba} ÷ {(Yaa -Yab) Zab } K {Yba Zab} ÷{ (Ybb -Yba)Zba } Where Zab is sown proportion of sugarcane in intercropping, Zba is sown proportion of intercrop in intercropping, Yab is the yield of sugarcane in intercropping, Yba is the yield of intercrop in intercropping, Yaa is the yield of sugarcane in sole cropping and Ybb is the yield of intercrops in sole cropping. Competitive ratio (CR) gives better measure of competitive ability of the crops and is also advantageous as an index over K and A  All the competition indices do not provide any information of the economic advantage of the intercropping system. To calculate the economic advantage monetary advantage index (MAI) was calculated as: MAI = (value of combined intercrops) × (LER -1) ÷ LER The higher the MAI value the more prof the cropping system  The data was analyzed using OPSTAT. Online Statistical Analysis was available on CCSHAU, Hisar website. 
 
 Germination percentage in spring planted sugarcane was not significantly affected by intercropping (Table  1 ).None of the intercrop had any adverse effect on the germination of cane, because germination mainly depends on moisture in setts, total sugar content including reducing sugar  Number of tillers and millable canes were reduced non-significantly due to different intercrops. The reduction in tillers was highest (4.41%) when cowpea was intercropped in sugarcane (Table  1 ) and this reduction may be due to the shading effect created by cowpea. Similar trend was observed in number of millable canes. Intercropping of cowpea in spring planted sugarcane recorded 5.64 % reduction in millable canes as compared to sole sugarcane. In spring planted sugarcane, none of the intercrop reduced cane weight, whereas, the average cane weight was maximum (816.5 g) when black gram was intercropped in sugarcane. This was because cane weight is inversely proportional to number of millable canes. Cane yield was not reduced significantly due to intercropping, although marginal reduction in cane yield was recorded due to intercropping. Maximum cane yield reduction (3.31%) was recorded in sugarcane + cowpea intercropping system (Table  2 ). This was due to less number of millable canes when cowpea was intercropped in sugarcane. Among different intercropping systems, intercropping of cluster bean and cowpea   The intercrops yield was less in intercropping treatments compared to their sole crops as there was pressure of harvesting intercrops as early as possible so as to provide sufficient time to sugarcane for tillering (Table  2  & 3). Sugarcane equivalent yield due to intercropping of cluster bean was highest (42.1 t ha -1 ) because of higher yield of cluster bean compared to other intercrops. Total equivalent yield (TEY) was significantly higher due to intercropping in different intercropping systems. TEY was highest (116.7 t ha -1 ) when cluster bean was intercropped in sug-arcane and was lowest (83.8 t ha -1 ) in sugarcane + black gram intercropping system. This indicated the advantage of taking different intercrops in sugarcane over sole crop of sugarcane. There was no significant difference in commercial cane sugar percentage (CCS %) and sugar yield due to intercropping in spring planted sugarcane. Sharma also reported the similar results in 2003. Among different treatments, sole sugarcane and sugarcane + cowpea recorded maximum (8.27 t ha -1 ) and minimum (8.02 t ha -1 ) sugar yield, respectively (Fig  1 ). 
 The percent incidence of pink borer ( ), shoot borer ( ), top borer ( ) and root borer ( ) remained below economical threshold level (ETL). Pink borer incidence was higher in green gram and black gram (Table  4 ). This shows that different intercropping systems did not aggravate the insect incidence on sugarcane. Pulses like green gram, black gram and soybean reduced the incidence of sugarcane shoot borer  
 Partial LER of sugarcane (LERs) was maximum (0.99) when sugarcane was intercropped in green gram and cluster bean. Maximum partial LER of intercrop (LERi) and maximum total LER (LERt) was recorded in sugarcane + cowpea intercropping system (0.80 and 1.77respectively). Lowest LERt (1.68) was recorded in sugarcane + green gram and sugarcane + black gram intercropping systems  When the value of LERt is greater than one, the intercropping favors the growth and yield of the species. When LERt is lower than one the intercropping negatively effects the growth and yield of crops grown in mixtures  Land equivalent coefficient (LEC) followed the same pattern as LERt. Maximum LEC (0.77) was recorded in sugarcane + cowpea intercropping system and lowest LEC (0.69) was recorded in sugarcane + green gram and sugarcane + black gram intercropping systems (Fig  3 ). In all intercropping systems, LEC was greater than 0.25, showed that intercropping with stable potentials are superior to their components planted as sole crops on per unit area productivity. This is consistent with the findings of  Area time equivalent ratio (ATER) provides more realistic comparison of the yield advantage of intercropping over sole cropping in terms of variation in time taken by the component crops of different intercropping systems. Maximum partial area time equivalent ratio for sugarcane (ATERs) was recorded in sugarcane + green gram and sugarcane + cluster bean (0.99) followed by sugarcane + black gram intercropping systems (0.98). Maximum partial area time equivalent ratio for intercrops (ATERi) was recorded in sugarcane + cowpea (0.23) followed by sugarcane + clusterbean (0.22). Lowest ATERi (0.15) was recorded in sugarcane + green gram intercropping systems. Almost similar trend was observed in total area time equivalent ratio (ATERt). ATERt was more than one in all the cropping systems (Fig  4 ). In all the treatments, the ATERt values were lesser than LERt values (Fig.  2  and Fig.  4 ) indicating the over estimation of resource utilization. ATER is free from problems of over estimation of resource utilization contrary to LER. ATERt values showed an advantage (14-21%) with all intercropping systems than sole cropping with maximum advantage from sugarcane + cluster bean. Higher ATER values of cot-ton+cowpea have earlier been reported by  Partial K values of sugarcane (Ks) was maximum and minimum in sugarcane + cluster bean (55.5) and sugarcane + cowpea (19.6) intercropping systems, respectively. Ks value was more than one and also more than partial K values of intercrops (Ki) in all intercropping systems indicated that sugarcane was more competitive than intercrops. Ki was maximum in sugarcane + cowpea (2.7) followed by sugarcane + cluster bean (2.1) intercropping system. Total K value (Kt) was maximum and minimum in sugarcane + cluster bean (117.8) and sugarcane + black gram (30.4) intercropping system, respectively  Sugarcane + black gram (0.40) intercropping systems recorded maximum partial aggressivity value for intercrop (Ai) and Ai was lowest in sugarcane + cluster bean (0.15) intercropping system (Fig.  6 ). This may be due to the differential growth habit of the associated intercrops. The data presented in Fig.  6  further indicated that the component crops did not compete equally. Regardless of the intercropping systems, there was a negative sign for sugarcane and the positive for intercrops showing that the sugarcane was dominated, while intercrops were dominant. As partial aggressivity value for sugarcane (As) were minimum for sugarcane + black gram (-0.40) intercropping system, which indicated that black gram was the most competitive crop to sugarcane. The aggressivity values were influenced by the intercrops  The competitive ratio (CR) is an important tool to know the degree with which one crop competes with the other. Higher CR values for the intercrops (CRi) indicated that all the intercrops were more competitive than sugarcane (Fig.  7 ). The CRi values were maximum in sugarcane + black gram (1.41) followed by sugarcane + green gram (1.38) intercropping system. These results suggested that among intercrops, black gram and green gram proved to be better competitor as compared to other intercrops, when grown in association with sugarcane. It is evident from the CRi that among all intercrops, cluster bean was found to be most suitable crops for intercropping with sugarcane. The competitive ratio for sugarcane (CRs) was highest for sugarcane + cluster bean (0.87) intercropping system. Tahir . (  2003 ) reported that wheat proved to be a better competitor than other intercrops when grown in association with canola.  The AYL can have positive or negative values indicating an advantage or disadvantage accrued in intercrops when the main objective is to compare yield on per plant basis. Results of AYL showed that intercrops were more dominant than sugarcane in intercropping as values of partial AYL of sugarcane (AYLs) were negative, whereas, intercrops had positive values (Fig.  8 ) probably due to the negative effects of intercrops on sugarcane. Intercropping sugarcane with cluster bean decreased the sugarcane yield by 1.2 % (AYLs = -0.012) and 3.4 % (AYLs -0.034) when cow pea was intercropped with sugarcane. However, there was increased yield of intercrops in association with sugarcane. Cluster bean showed 42.3 % (AYLi = 0.423) yield advantage in sugarcane + cluster bean intercropping system, and 35.7 % (AYLi= 0.357) yield advantage in sugarcane + green gram intercropping system over sole cropping. Total values of AYL showed an advantage between 10.6-40.3 % from intercropping systems compared to sole cropping, due to recovery made by intercrops. Quantification of yield loss or gain due to association with other species or variation of plant population could not be obtained through partial LER's, whereas; partial AYL shows yield loss or gain by its sign and as its value  Intercropping advantage (IA) is also an indicator of the economic feasibility of intercropping systems. The values of IA followed the same trend as that of AYL values. The values of partial IA showed that intercropping had economic disadvantage for sugarcane having negative values and advantage from intercrops having positive values in intercropping systems. Maximum economic disadvantage for sugarcane was observed in sugarcane + cowpea (-52.1) followed by sugarcane + black gram (-31.6) intercropping system due to yield loss of sugarcane in these systems (Fig.  9 ). Partial IA values for intercrops (IAi) were positive meant intercrops got certain advantage due to intercropping in sugarcane. Maximum IAi was found in sugarcane + black gram (6738.7) intercropping system. The positive values of IA mean that intercrops compensated the yield loss in sugarcane. Monetary advantage index (MAI) values were positive which showed a definite yield advantage in all intercropping systems compared to sole cropping. The minimum MAI value was obtained from sugarcane + green gram (52302) intercropping system. Whereas, the highest MAI value was obtained from sugarcane + cluster bean (76361) intercropping system (Fig  10 ) and confirm the results of LER's and other competition indices. These results also support the findings of  Perusal of data presented in table 5 clearly revealed that yield of sugarcane reduced marginally due to intercropping but that was compensated by additional yield of intercrops. Intercropping in sugarcane resulted in higher gross returns, returns over variable cost and benefit: cost ratio. Returns over variable cost in case of sugarcane + black gram, sugarcane + green gram, sugarcane + cowpea and sugarcane + cluster bean was 13320, 18455, 12030 and 30477 -1 respectively higher than sole sugarcane (Table  5 ). 
 Spring planting of sugarcane with different intercrops resulted in higher total equivalent yield (TEY). TEY was highest (116.7 t ha -1 ) when cluster bean was intercropped in sugarcane and was lowest (83.8 t ha -1 ) in sugarcane + black gram intercropping system. Sugarcane equivalent yield due to intercropping of cluster bean was highest (42.1 t ha -1 ) because of higher yield of cluster bean compared to other intercrops. Different intercropping systems did not aggravate the insect incidence on sugarcane. In all intercropping systems, LERt was greater than unity, ATERt values showed an advantage (14-21%) with all intercropping systems than sole cropping with maximum advantage from sugarcane + cluster bean. Higher CR values for the intercrops (CRi) indicated that all the intercrops were more competitive than sugarcane. Total values of AYL showed an advantage between 10.6 -40.3 % from intercropping system compared to sole cropping due to recovery made by intercrops. Maximum IAi value was found in sugarcane + black gram (6738.7) intercropping system. The highest MAI value was obtained from sugarcane + cluster bean (76361) intercropping system. The results have shown that green gram, black gram, cowpea and cluster bean can be successfully intercropped with spring planted sugarcane for higher returns.
Tripura is a small hilly landlocked state of North-East India with tropical savana climate and enriched with diverse form of wild vegetation. Dunal is one of the solanaceous weed growing widely in different localities and road sides of Tripura. The species is commonly known as tropical soda apple and native to Brazil, Paraguay, Argentina  
 was collected from Suryamaninagar, West Tripura district with a geographical coordinates 23 0 46 14.7 N, 091 0 15 47.3 E and identified in consultation with Prof. B.K.Datta Plant Taxonomy and Biodiversity Laboratory, Department of Botany, Tripura University. Specimen so identified were used in herbarium sheet preparation and deposited at the herbarium centre of the Department of Botany, Tripura University with an accession number TUH-499. Cytological mitotic chromosome study was carried out following standard aceto-orcein squashing technique  Study of meiotic metaphase chromosomes was carried out with the flower buds following propino-carmine smear technique. Flower buds from smallest to largest were smeared to find out the optimum stage of meiotic metaphase. Anthers of the optimium size flower buds were fixed in 1:3 propino ethanol mixture at 9.30 to 10 am and kept for overnight. Ideal meiotic metaphase stages were prepared using 2% propino-carmine smear technique. The respective metaphase was drawn by using camera lucida under oil immersion objective (× 1520). 
 Cytological studies of meiotic metaphase chromosomes of showed consistently 12 bivalents without any irregularities suggesting the taxon is having 2n = 24 chromosomes (Fig.  1A  and 1B ).The mitotic metaphases also revealed 24 somatic chromosomes and constant in all the metaphase plates scanned (Fig 2  A  and B ). This observation is also in accordance with previous findings  (Table 1 ). The absolute average size of the chromosomes ranged from 1.89 ± 0.33 µm to 3.59 ± 0.19 µm having a one pair of secondary constriction. The secondary constriction is associated with the short arm of the chromosome having a length of 3.59 ± 0.19 µm. On the basis of primary, secondary constriction and the size of the chromosomal complements, chromosomes are classified into following four morphological types  Type B: Chromosomes having an average size range of 2.23 ± 0.33 µm to 2.57 ± 0.35 µm with typical metacentric in nature. Type C: Chromosomes having an average size range of 1.89 ± 0.33 µm to 3.01 ± 0.34 µm with nearly-median (nm) primary constrictions. Type D: Chromosomes having an average size range of 2.14 ± 0.00 µm to 2.65 ± 0.20 µm with sub-median(sm) primary constrictions. There are two pairs of chromosomes with strictly median (m) primary constriction, seven pairs of nearly-median (nm) chromosomes in which one pair has secondary constriction and three pairs of chromosomes are sub-median (sm).Thus the karyotype formula of the present is 2A + 4B + 12C+ 6D (Fig.  3 ).The total length of the chromosomal complements is 60.92 µm and the average length of the chromosomal complements (C) is 2.54 µm. The average arm ratio of the chromosomal complements is 1.42 with a total haploid length 30.50 µm in this taxon. The total forma percentage (TF%) of the karyotype is 42.40 suggesting chromosomal complements are nearly median in general. According to the  2 ). The somatic chromosome number of also revealed gradual size deduction in each type of chromosome. The TF% and the chromosome arm symmetry index values indicate symmetry of chromosome.
Sugarcane (Saccharum hybrids L.) is an important commercial crop in India and plays a pivotal role in agricultural and industrial economy of our country. In India, sugarcane is cultivated to an extent of 4.2 million hectares, producing nearly 290 million tones. The demand for sugar is consistently increasing and it is estimated that by 2020, the total sugarcane requirement of our country would be nearly 625 million tonnes  The field experiment was carried out at Ariyalur district, Tamil Nadu during 2004-05 under sandy loam soil, to study S.Manimaran ( ) • D. Kalyanasundaram • S. Ramesh • K. Sivakumar Faculty of Agriculture, Annamalai University Annamalai Nagar-608002, Chidambaram, Tamil Nadu, India email: sambamaran69@yahoo.co.in; sambamaran@yahoo.com the effect of different spacing, planting methods, intercropping and nutrient management technique in sugarcane variety Co 86032. The weather of the experimental site is moderately warm with hot summer months. The experiment was carried out in split plot design with three replications. The main plots comprised of eight treatments viz., M 1 -120 cm row spacing with end to end method of planting, M 2 -120 cm row spacing with crossing planting method (setts placed across the furrow), M 3 -M 1 + successive intercropping (blackgram sown immediately after planting and harvested on 60 th day and then sunnhemp was sown immediately and incorporated in situ on 45 th day of sowing), M 4 -M 2 + successive intercropping, M 5 -80 cm row spacing with conventional method of planting (end to end method), M 6 -80 cm row spacing with cross planting method, M 7 -M 5 + intercropping (black gram) and M 8 -M 6 + intercropping (black gram). The treated setts were planted in the furrows at the rate of 60,000 setts ha -1 in wide (120 cm) spaced rows and 75,000 setts ha -1 in normal spaced (80 cm) rows  
 Significant effect on NMC was noted due to difference in planting methods. In general, among 80 cm row spacing treatments recorded higher NMC than 120 cm row spacing. 80 cm row spacing with end to end method of planting + black gram intercropping (M 7 ) registered higher NMC of 1,13,630 ha -1 (Table  -1 ), where as in 120 cm spacing with cross planting method + successive intercropping (M 4 ) recorded higher NMC of 1,05,350 ha -1 . But the tillering capacity was higher in 120 cm row spacing compared to 80 cm row spacing. Nutrient management practices significantly influenced the NMC. S 4recommended dose of fertilizer + Acetobacter + foliar spraying of micronutrient mixture recorded higher NMC of 1,10,020 ha -1 . 
 Single cane weight was significantly influenced by planting methods, 120 cm between row with cross planting + successive intercropping (M 4 ) recorded the highest single cane weight of 1.50 kg (Table  1 ), which was 17.12 % higher than normal row spacing (1.28 kg) with conventional method of planting (M 5 ). Among the nutrient management practices, the highest cane weight of 1.41 kg was recorded in S 4 treatment, which received the recommended dose of fertilizer + Acetobacter @ 10 kg ha -1 + foliar spraying of micronutrients mixture (1%) at 45 and 75 DAP. The combined effect of planting method and nutrient management practices was significant and the higher single cane weight was obtained in the treatment combination M 4 S 4 (1.57 kg). Similar findings of increased single cane weight under wide row spacing as compared to closer row spacing was reported by  
 The planting methods had a profound effect on cane yield, 120 cm row spacing with cross planting method + successive intercropping (M 4 ) registered higher cane yield of 148.90 t ha -1 (Table  2 ). This was 11.30 % higher than the conventional planting method (M 5 ). Among the sub plots, the addition of recommended fertilizers + Acetobacter + foliar spraying of micronutrient mixture (S 4 ) recorded significantly higher cane 1 3  
 The study concluded that among the various spacing and planting methods, wider row spacing of 120 cm row spacing with cross planting method along with successive intercropping (blackgram followed by sunnhemp) and application of recommended dose of fertilizers (275:62.5:112.5kg NPK ha -1 ) along with Acetobacter (@ 10 kg ha -1 ) and foliar spraying of micronutrient mixture (1 % at 45 and 75 DAP) recorded the highest single cane weight, cane and sugar yield. Thus, this practice can be recommended to the farmers, which is also suitable for mechanized operations. yield of 141.97 t ha -1 . This was 5.09 % higher than the control treatment (S 1 ). The interaction between the planting method and nutrient management was found to be significant. The treatment combination M 4 S 4 recorded significantly higher cane yield of 153.41 t ha -1 . The availability of more space in between cane rows and more sunlight interception, which led to increased cane girth, internode length and individual cane weight which altogether resulted in better cane yields.  
 Sugar yield was significantly influenced by different planting methods. Among the planting methods, wide row spacing with cross planting method + successive intercropping (M 4 ) recorded significantly higher sugar yield of 17.28 t ha -1 (Table  2 ). Significant variation was observed in sugar yield by nutrient management practices. The treatment, S 4 (recommended dose of fertilizers + Acetobacter + foliar spraying of micronutrient mixture) recorded significantly the higher sugar yield of 16.62 t ha -1 . The higher sugar yield of 18.47 t ha -1 was recorded by M 4 S 4 combination (wide row spacing with cross planting method + successive intercropping with recommended fertilizers + Acetobacter + foliar spraying of micronutrient mixture). Similar findings were also made by
Sugarcane plays a significant role in Pakistan's agriculture by producing sugar and other byproducts such as biofuel, fiber and press mud. It has a pivotal role in elevating the economic power of the farming community, as it contributes 3.6% value addition in agriculture and 0.7% in gross domestic products of Pakistan  Planting geometry refers to the spatial distribution of plants over a specified field area. Appropriate planting geometry ensures the efficient and judicious use of the irrigation water. Desired level of seed germination, vigorous and healthy root and shoot growth and equal distribution in time and space are some of the key benefits realized by ensuring appropriate planting geometry. Altering the planting geometries not only influences the morphological characteristics; rather, all the physiological and quantitative parameters are influenced significantly as well  The main aim of imposing such types of planting patterns is to overcome the limitations of older ones such as facilitation of inter-tillage practices, avoidance from lodging, maintaining optimum plant population and ease of irrigation, fertilizer, and plant protection  The ratooning potential is the ability of sugarcane to re-sprout from left-over plant parts in the field after harvesting. From the farmer's point of view, it is considered the most desirable character of sugarcane cultivar  There are many ways to assure near future food safety and to boost the per unit crop yield in different farming systems; inter-cropping can be a viable option. It is a more efficient and eco-friendly method that results in enhanced production. Intercropping ensures efficient utilization of natural assets and harmonizes the effect of two or more crops grown simultaneously on same unit of land; thus, it is a very good option in the development of sustainable food production systems  Sugarcane is a relatively long-duration crop sown on wider spaced rows with slow initial growth. After emergence (5-6 weeks), it remains dormant for a period of 3-4 months due to low temperature. In order to drive benefits from its slow growth and make better use of resources, intercropping of some short duration crop (leguminous crop) can be explored. Lentil is one potentially viable option because it is a short-duration crop (3-4 months), fixes atmospheric nitrogen via symbiotic rhizobia in root nodules, and consequently, has, in rotation, the potential for maintaining soil fertility, and helps in controlling weeds. More cane yield of the autumn planted sugarcane with lentil intercrop than sugarcane alone was reported by  A comprehensive study was planned and executed for getting higher sugarcane yield. The specific objective of the study was to compare the different planting patterns, namely, single row, double and trench planting, pit plantation techniques, and ratoon crop with and without lentil intercropping aimed at getting higher cane yield, quality, and net economic returns under agro-ecological conditions of Punjab, Pakistan. We hypothesized trench planting of sugarcane and its intercropping with lentil will improve the growth and yield of both the crops. 
 
 The field studies were carried out consecutively for two years 2013-2015 and 2015-2016 at Agronomy farm, University of Agriculture, Faisalabad, Pakistan. The soil is alluvial in nature and the area is canal irrigated. The geographic location of Faisalabad is 31.5 • N latitude and 73 • E longitude, with 184.4 m altitude above sea level. The weather is considered semi-arid with very hot and humid summers and cool dry winters. The summer season starts from the month of April, which lasts up to October, whereas the hottest months of the years are May to July. December to February are known as the coldest months in Pakistan. Prior to the start of each experiment, a composite soil sample to 0-30 cm depth from the experimental site was analyzed for various physicochemical characteristics of the soil. For analysis of nitrogen (N), phosphorous (P) and potash (K) soil sampling was done after the harvest of the crop. The analysis was carried out in the Institute of Soil and Environmental Sciences (ISES) and results are given in Table  1 . The soil analysis showed that the soil of the trial site was sandy loam, slightly alkaline, and highly deficient in nitrogen and phosphorus.  
 Agricultural Meteorology Cell, Agriculture University, provided the measured metrological data. Data are presented in Figure  1 . Total rainfall during the growing period of the freshly-planted crop was 378 mm, while that of ratoon crop was 413 mm. Agronomy 2020, 10, x FOR PEER REVIEW 4 of 24 
 Agricultural Meteorology Cell, Agriculture University, provided the measured metrological data. Data are presented in Figure  1 . Total rainfall during the growing period of the freshly-planted crop was 378 mm, while that of ratoon crop was 413 mm.  
 The experiment was laid out in randomized complete block design with split plot arrangement having four replications. Treatments included seven planting patterns of sugarcane allotted to subplots in both plant cane and ratoon crops. In pit planting, the 90 cm diameter pits were established at 45, 60, 75, and 90 cm row-to-row as well as plant-to-plant spacing in treatments P1, P2, P3, and P4, respectively. In treatment P5, sugarcane was planted in single rows with 60 cm row-to-row spacing. In treatment P6, there were twin rows or double rows with 90 cm row-to-row spacing. Treatment P7  
 The experiment was laid out in randomized complete block design with split plot arrangement having four replications. Treatments included seven planting patterns of sugarcane allotted to sub-plots in both plant cane and ratoon crops. In pit planting, the 90 cm diameter pits were established at 45, 60, 75, and 90 cm row-to-row as well as plant-to-plant spacing in treatments P1, P2, P3, and P4, respectively. In treatment P5, sugarcane was planted in single rows with 60 cm row-to-row spacing. In treatment P6, there were twin rows or double rows with 90 cm row-to-row spacing. Treatment P7 consisted of trench Agronomy 2020, 10, 644 5 of 24 planting with 120 cm row to row distance with double rows of double budded setts placed at 20-25 cm depth. The plot size was 4.2 m × 9 m in P1, 4.5 m × 9 m in P2, 4.95 m × 9 m in P3, 4.95 m × 9 m in P4, 4.80 m × 9 m in P5, 4.80 m × 9 m in P6 and 7.2 m × 9 m in P7. Each of these treatments was planted as sole as well as intercropped with lentil that acted as the main plots. Lentil was intercropped in between the empty spaces of sugarcane rows/pits of each treatment at 30 cm distance (Figure  2 ). 
 The field preparation in case of single, double, and trench planting methods was carried out using the standard procedure of ploughing, cultivation and levelling. However, in the case of pit plantation, a tractor-mounted post-hole digger was used to dig round pits of 60 cm depth in zero tilled soil. The 90 cm double rows planting and 120 cm trenches were made with the help of a sugarcane ridger. Afterwards, digging pits were again filled with the same soil to a depth of 45 cm. Sugarcane's variety CPF-247 was selected as a test variety for both years of experiment. Sowing was done on 14th of September 2013 and lentil was intercropped on 25th October 2013. However, in case of ratoon crop, lentil was sown just after the harvesting of plant crop. Lentil variety (NIAB Masoor-2006) was used as an intercrop. In different planting methods according to the space available, different number of lentil rows was sown, i.e., in 45 cm-spaced round pits with one row of lentil, 60 cm-spaced round pits with two rows of lentil, 75 cm-spaced round pits with two rows of lentil, 90 cm-spaced round pits with three rows of lentil, 60 cm-single row planting (conventional method) with one row of lentil, 90 cm-double row planting with two rows of lentil, and 120 cm-trench planting with four rows of lentil that were in between the empty spaces of sugarcane, while Lentil alone was planted in 30 cm-spaced single rows with 12 rows. The 120 cm trenches, 90 cm double rows planting, and 60 cm single rows plantation of sugarcane were given two manual hoeings and one earthing-up. The first two hoeings were done on 28th November and 7th February, respectively. Earthing-up was done in the middle of March. In ratoon crop, earthing up was done by the end of May. The pit-planted sugarcane crop was not earthed-up at any stage. However, one hoeing was done two months after planting to control weeds growing in the space between the pits. The pits were inter-connected with one another through small water channels to design a basin irrigation system. Irrigation and fertilizer application were restricted only to pits. A total of 20 irrigations each of 10 cm depth were applied to sugarcane, while lentil crop was given only one-two irrigations during the whole growing period. The total amount of irrigation water applied to the plant crop was 1977 mm, while to ratoon crop it was 1950 mm. The N, P, and K were applied at a rate of 165, 110, and 110 kg ha -1 in the form of urea, di-ammonium phosphate, and sulfate of potash, respectively. However, ratoon crop was fertilized at 30% higher amounts compared to the first-year fresh planted crop. Insect-pests were controlled through chlorpyriphos at 5 L/ha with first irrigation. Plant crop of sugarcane was harvested on 30th November 2014, while ratoon crop of sugarcane was harvested on January 15th 2016. Lentil harvesting was done on 21st of March 2014 and 2nd April 2015. 
 Sugarcane growth, i.e., leaf area index (LAI), leaf area duration (LAD), crop growth rate (CGR), net assimilation rate (NAR), and total dry matter (TDM), yield and yield related traits, i.e., number of millable canes m -2 , plant height, cane length, cane diameter, and stripped cane yield, and total sugar yield, lentil yield and yield components (1000-seed weight, biological yield, seed yield, harvest index), and land equivalent ratio were recorded through their standard procedures. LAI: With the help of leaf area meter (∆T area meter MK2) leaf area of green laminae was recorded. Following formula was used for its calculation: LAI = Lae f area o f crop plants Land area o f crop plants . ( 1 ) LAD (Days): The authors in  LAD = (LAI 1 + LAI 2 ) × (T 2 -T 1 ) 2 days (2) where LAI 1 = Leaf area index at t 1 , LAI 2 = Leaf area index at t 2 , T 1 = Time of first observation, T 2 = Time of second observation, T 1 and T 2 are with 30 days interval, while the following 60 days of planting were recorded. CGR (g m -2 day -1 ): The authors in  CGR = (W 2 -W 1 ) (T 2 -T 1 ) (3) where W 1 is considered the plant dry weight at time t 1 , W 2 is known as plant dry weight during the time t 2 . T 1 and T 2 are the harvest time for the 1st and 2nd time, respectively. W 2 and W 1 are the total dry weights harvested at time T 1 and T 2 , respectively; first data were collected at 60 days after planting. NAR (g m -2 day -1 ): NAR was determined by using the formula proposed by the authors in  NAR = TDM LAD (4) where TDM = Total dry matter, LAD = Leaf area duration TDM (t/ha): After a 30-day interval, plant sampling was carried out on a random basis from each experimental unit. To estimate the fresh weight, plants were separated into leaves, stem, and trash. To determine the dry weight, a 10 g plant sample was taken from each portion after drying at 65 • C. TDM was ascertained in (g) and converted into t/ha after adding the dry weights of the leaves, stem, and trash. Number of millable canes/m 2 : From each experimental unit at harvest, the number of millable canes was tallied and then calculated in m -2 area. Plant height (cm): At harvest, 10 stripped canes from each treatment were collected. From the plant base to the base of top visible dewlap (TVD), the leaf plant height of each plant was calculated. Then, their average was calculated. Cane length (cm): Ten randomly selected stripped canes were measured and their average values were recorded. Cane diameter (cm): Ten randomly stripped canes were collected at the time of harvesting. The top, middle, and base of the cane was used for the diameter determination with a vernier caliper and then averaged. Stripped cane yield (t/ha): All stripped canes of each plot were weighed, and then the number was transformed to t/ha. Total sugar yield (t/ha): Sugar yield (t/ha) was calculated using the following formula: Sugar yield (t/ha) = Stripped cane yield (t/ha) 100 × CCS % (5) The commercial cane sugar (CCS%) was calculated through formula of  CCS = 3P 2 1 - (F + 5) 100 - 1 2 B 1 - (F + 3) 100 ( 6 ) where P is the percentage of pol in juice, B is the percentage of brix in juice, and F is the percentage of fiber in juice (12.5%) Land equivalent ratio: The authors in  
 After deduction of the gross investment from the gross field benefits, the net filed benefit (NFB) was calculated  MRR (%) = MNB MC × 100 (8) 
 Fisher's analysis of variance was used for statistically analysis of collected data and for comparison of differences among treatment means; a least significant difference (LSD) test was used at 5% probability  where Yaa = pure stand yield of crop a (sugarcane), Ybb = pure stand yield of crop b (lentil), Yab = intercrop yield of crop a (sugarcane), Yba = intercrop yield of crop b (lentil). 
 After deduction of the gross investment from the gross field benefits, the net filed benefit (NFB) was calculated  MRR (%) = × 100 (8) 
 Fisher's analysis of variance was used for statistically analysis of collected data and for comparison of differences among treatment means; a least significant difference (LSD) test was used at 5% probability  
 
 Different planting patterns of sugarcane showed a significant effect on growth parameters of sugarcane planted alone and intercropped with lentil presented in (Figure  3 4 5 6 7 ). In plant crop, sugarcane sown in 120 cm trench planting (sugarcane alone) attained the highest LAI (8.97), LAD (1346 days), CGR (12.42 g m -2 day -1 ), NAR (3.15 g m -2 day -1 ), and TDM (34.64 t ha -1 ). The same planting geometry with lentil intercropping as well as 45 cm pits with 90 cm diameter, 60 cm pits with 90 cm diameter, and 75 cm pits with 90 cm diameter both in sugarcane planted alone and intercropped with lentil gave similar results regarding the growth parameters of sugarcane. In contrast, the minimum values of these parameters were recorded from the treatment where sugarcane was planted in 60 cm single rows with and without lentil as an intercrop. In ratoon crop, the maximum LAI (7.88), LAD (1160 days), CGR (11.11 g m -2 day -1 ), NAR (2.75 g m -2 day -1 ), and TDM (29.62 t ha -1 ) were recorded in trench planting at 120 cm (sugarcane alone), followed by 45 cm pits with 90 cm diameter, 120 cm trench planting with lentil intercrop, and 60 cm pits with 90 cm diameter. Sugarcane planted in 60 cm single rows planting + lentil as an intercrop and sugarcane sown in 60 cm apart as sole crop showed the minimum values of these parameters.  
 
 Different planting patterns of sugarcane showed a significant effect on growth parameters of sugarcane planted alone and intercropped with lentil presented in (Figures  3 4 5 6 7 ). In plant crop, sugarcane sown in 120 cm trench planting (sugarcane alone) attained the highest LAI (8.97), LAD (1346 days), CGR (12.42 g m -2 day -1 ), NAR (3.15 g m -2 day -1 ), and TDM (34.64 t ha -1 ). The same planting geometry with lentil intercropping as well as 45 cm pits with 90 cm diameter, 60 cm pits with 90 cm diameter, and 75 cm pits with 90 cm diameter both in sugarcane planted alone and intercropped with lentil gave similar results regarding the growth parameters of sugarcane. In contrast, the minimum values of these parameters were recorded from the treatment where sugarcane was planted in 60 cm single rows with and without lentil as an intercrop. In ratoon crop, the maximum LAI (7.88), LAD (1160 days), CGR (11.11 g m -2 day -1 ), NAR (2.75 g m -2 day -1 ), and TDM (29.62 t ha -1 ) were recorded in trench planting at 120 cm (sugarcane alone), followed by 45 cm pits with 90 cm diameter, 120 cm trench planting with lentil intercrop, and 60 cm pits with 90 cm diameter. Sugarcane planted in 60 cm single rows planting + lentil as an intercrop and sugarcane sown in 60 cm apart as sole crop showed the minimum values of these parameters. 45 cm pits with 90 cm diameter, P 2 : 60 cm pits with 90 cm diameter, P 3 : 75 cm pits with 90 cm diameter, P 4 : 90 cm pits with 90 cm diameter, P 5 : 60 cm single rows planting, P 6 : 90 cm double rows planting, P 7 : Trench planting at 120 cm. Any two means not sharing a common letter(s) differ significantly at 5% probability. P1: 45 cm pits with 90 cm diameter, P2: 60 cm pits with 90 cm diameter, P3: 75 cm pits with 90 cm diameter, P4: 90 cm pits with 90 cm diameter, P5: 60 cm single rows planting, P6: 90 cm double rows planting, P7: Trench planting at 120 cm. Any two means not sharing a common letter(s) differ significantly at 5% probability. Crop growth rate (g m -2 day -1 ) of sugarcane as influenced by various planting patterns and lentil intercropping in (a) Plant crop and (b) ratoon crop. P 1 : 45 cm pits with 90 cm diameter, P 2 : 60 cm pits with 90 cm diameter, P 3 : 75 cm pits with 90 cm diameter, P 4 : 90 cm pits with 90 cm diameter, P 5 : 60 cm single rows planting, P 6 : 90 cm double rows planting, P 7 : Trench planting at 120 cm. Any two means not sharing a common letter(s) differ significantly at 5% probability. P 1 : 45 cm pits with 90 cm diameter, P 2 : 60 cm pits with 90 cm diameter, P 3 : 75 cm pits with 90 cm diameter, P 4 : 90 cm pits with 90 cm diameter, P 5 : 60 cm single rows planting, P 6 : 90 cm double rows planting, P 7 : Trench planting at 120 cm. Any two means not sharing a common letter(s) differ significantly at 5% probability. (a) (b) 45 cm pits with 90 cm diameter, P 2 : 60 cm pits with 90 cm diameter, P 3 : 75 cm pits with 90 cm diameter, P 4 : 90 cm pits with 90 cm diameter, P 5 : 60 cm single rows planting, P 6 : 90 cm double rows planting, P 7 : Trench planting at 120 cm. Any two means not sharing a common letter(s) differ significantly at 5% probability. 
 Results presented in Table  2 ; Table  3  reveals that various planting patterns significantly affected the parameters related to sugarcane yield and total sugar yield of sugarcane either grown alone or intercropped with lentil in both plant crop and ratoon crop. Among different planting patterns in plant cane, the number of millable canes in 45 cm pit planting was similar to 120 cm trench planting, but it was significantly greater than other planting patterns (Table  2 ). However, plant height was greater in 90 cm pit planting than other planting patterns except trench planting. Cane diameter was mostly similar in all planting patterns (Table  3 ). Stripped cane yield (SCY) and total sugar yield (TSY), with and without lentil intercropping, were significantly greater in 120 cm trench planting than all other planting patterns (Table  3 ). Similar results were seen in the ratoon crop with greater cane and sugar yields in 120 cm trench planting compared to other planting patterns. In comparison to all planting patterns, 90 cm apart single row planting remained at the bottom, as it gained the lowest values of all these parameters in both plant and ratoon crops. A similar trend of achieving higher plant height, cane diameter, cane length, stripped cane yield (SCY), and total sugar yield (TSY) was shown by the 120 m trench planting in ratoon crop. Compared to the traditional 60 cm apart single row planting pattern, 120 cm trench planting showed up to 4.34, 12.12, 8.63, 43.18, and 42.81% increase in plant height, cane diameter, cane length, SCY, and TSY, respectively. 
 Biological yields, seed yields, and harvest index's means of lentil intercropped with sugarcane under different planting patterns showed significant differences among themselves (Table  4 ). Lentil crop sown alone in 30 cm apart rows produced significantly higher biological and seed yields than other planting patterns in both 2013-2014 and 2014-2015 years. However, lentil intercrop performed better when sown along with 120 cm trench planted sugarcane, as it produced significantly higher biological and seed yields, which were 296% and 319% higher, respectively, than the lowest yields recorded with the lentil intercropped in 45 cm pit planting. Similarly, the harvest index (HI) of lentil was significantly greater in 120 cm trench planting compared to others, including the lentil sole planting method in 2013-2014. In 2014-2015, 120 cm trench planting had a similar HI as lentil alone, but both of them were significantly greater than other planting patterns. The comparison of land equivalent ratios (LER) calculated from different sugarcane-lentil intercropping geometries (Table  4 ) revealed that 120 cm trench planting with four rows of lentil intercrop attained significantly higher LER values (1.40 and 1.37 during cropping seasons 2013-2014 and 2014-2015, respectively) than all other planting patterns.   
 Possibly, productivity as well as adoptability of an intercropping system are ultimately determined by their net monetary gain. Based on average net field benefits from both plant and ratoon crop, the highest NFB of Rs. 491703/ha was found in 120 cm trench planting + lentil intercropping, whereas the minimum NFB of Rs. 302559/ha was recorded in 60 cm single rows planting + lentil. Overall, higher net field benefits were obtained when lentil was intercropped in sugarcane. The better result of the 120 cm trench with lentil intercropping might be due to more lentil plant population when sown in between the empty spaces as compared to pit planting: 60 cm single row planting or 90 cm double row planting. Average data on net return of both plant and ratoon crops of sugarcane are presented in Table  5 . Maximum net return of Rs. 321254/ha was recorded in 120 cm trench planting with lentil as an intercrop; however, the minimum net return of Rs. 132110/ha was noted in 60 cm single rows planting + lentil. The results of BCR are presented in Table  5 . Average data on BCR of both plant and ratoon crops of sugarcane are presented in Table  5 . Maximum BCR (2.01) was recorded in 120 cm trench planting with lentil as an intercrop; however, the least BCR (1.50) was noted in 60 cm apart single row planting + lentil. Overall, the maximum BCR values were examined in all treatments of ratoon crop, because no sowing and tillage operations were carried out that ultimately resulted in a reduction of the overall cost of production. Since the net field benefits are not the final criteria for recommendation to the farmers, the marginal analysis was done to conclude the most profitable sugarcane intercropping system. The dominance analysis is given in Table  5 . Based on two-year average data, sugarcane planting methods (P 12 , P 13 , P 3 , P 10 , P 2 , P 9 , P 1 , and P 8 ) underwent dominance analysis. Those treatments that were signed as "D" in the dominance analysis were not selected for marginal analysis. The results of sugarcane-lentil intercropping systems have been described in Table  5 . Based on an average MRR, the maximum (16,902%) value was obtained from 120 cm trench planting.  
 Intercropping of a legume crop in sugarcane is advantageous as it improves the growth and yield of both crops by enhancing the soil nutrient contents and benefits the microbial population  Significantly higher CGR in sole sugarcane (SC) might be due to less competition for free environment, and more availability of nutrients and space that ultimately led to a well-developed root system. A deep root system provides nutrient and moisture availability for plants. The above conclusions are matched with the those of  6 ), LAD (Figure  4 ), production of total dry matter (Figure  7 ), and CGR (Figure  5 ). Variability in the production of total dry matter of sugarcane in different planting patterns was ascribed to variability in plant population, intercrop competition, and availability of different farm resources. Variability in millable canes/m 2 was possibly due to appreciative effect of increased nutrient accessibility, better air circulation and interception of light that resulted in reduced shoot mortality and better growth of cane due to better utilization of farm inputs. An increase in millable canes/m 2 for sole sugarcane could be possibly due to a higher number of tillers/m 2 . Similar results confirmed by  Variability in cane diameter in pit and trench planting with 60 cm single row and 90 cm double row strips of sole sugarcane and sugarcane with lentil may be attributed to better cane growth in pits and trench planting because of adequate supply of various agricultural inputs, such as water, fertilizer, etc., which were applied directly to the pits and within the trench instead of mixing them with the surface soil over the entire plant area. These outcomes are in close conformity with the conclusions of  3 ), CGR (Figure  5 ), TDM (Figure  7 ), and NAR (Figure  6 ). The more cane yield of the SC might be due to less competition for resources that enhanced the cane potential during developmental stage. The above findings are in line with  2 ). These results supported by  The results of the present study indicated that biological and seed yields as well as HI of lentil inter-crop were also varied significantly under different planting patterns of sugarcane. The variability in biological yield of lentil in intercropping treatments might be due to variable plant density. Diminution in the biological yield of lentil in intercropped treatments might be due to competition for light, water, nutrients, etc. between the sugarcane and lentil, while the increased biological yield in lentil alone can be attributed to competition free environment. These results are in conformity to those of  In conclusion, 120 cm trench planting pattern of sugarcane along with lentil intercropping outperformed in improving the LER and gave maximum economic return as compared to other intercropping patterns and sole planting of sugarcane. Agronomy 2020, 10, x FOR PEER REVIEW
Weeds are a major biotic constraint to tropical agriculture  Use of cover crops to control weeds before planting  The mechanisms underlying biological weed control using cover crops are complex. They can be direct through competition for resources, allelopathy or by providing a physical barrier to germination and emergence  One way of choosing and comparing possible cover crops is identifying morpho-physio-phenological features, recently referred to as plant functional traits  In Reunion Island, weed pressure is a major constraint for agriculture. The aim of the 2008 Ecophyto I and 2018 Ecophyto II program is to reduce the use of herbicides in the French agricultural sector by 50 % by 2025. In Reunion Island, sugarcane, the main agro-industrial sector, plays an important economic, societal, and environmental role as it uses more than 50 % of agricultural land  The aim of this study was to perform trait-based characterization of a wide range of cover crops to assess their ability to control weeds in tropical agrosystems, using Reunion Island as a case study. Specifically, our three objectives were to use the range of cover crop species i) to identify the species with the highest ground cover in tropical climatic conditions, ii) to identify the crop traits that maximize ground cover, and iii) to assess the ability of cover crops to control weed growth. To achieve these objectives, we conducted a set of 10 field experiments in Reunion Island from 2016 to 2018. Six were designed to assess the performance of the cover crops in response to local climate (i.e. weeds were controlled manually). The other four experiments were designed to assess the ability of cover crops to control weeds. 
 
 The trials were conducted in three experimental stations in Reunion Island between February and June (warm season and beginning of the cool season) from 2016 to 2018. Table  1  lists the locations and give the details on each trial. Soil characteristics at the three sites are listed in Supplementary Information A Table  A1 . Two main types of trials were performed: trials to choose the cover crop that grows best in the local climate (hereafter 'cover crop trial'), and trials to test which cover crop is best at weed control (hereafter 'weed control trial'). In the cover crop trials, weeds were removed manually after sowing and throughout the trial. Four cover crop trials were performed in La Mare  
 Cover crop and weed control trials. The cover crop species used in the different trials are listed in Table  A3 . For each trial, the site, latitude, longitude, altitude, soil type (WRB classification), year, average temperature (T MEAN ), number of species, plot area, sowing date, trial duration, fertilization regime are given. Supplementary Information Table  A2 . In all sites, the daily average temperature (T MEAN ) was measured. Five of the trials were fertilized at sowing while the other five were not fertilized. Fertilizer applications are described in Table  1 . All the trials were irrigated except at Colimaçons, where precipitation was > 120 mm month -1 during the growth period. Prior to sowing, the plots were tilled down to 15 cm using tines and herbicide was applied. Seeds were sown manually in lines with 40 cm interrow spacing at a depth of 2-5 cm. The sowing density for each species is listed in Supplementary Information Table  A3  and was determined from the literature, advice from suppliers and inhouse expertise. The experimental design of each trial is given in Figs. A1 to A10. 
 A total of 46 cover crop species were tested in the different trials. Details on the cover crop species used in each experiment are listed in Tables A3, A4 and A5. The species included Asteraceae (n = 2), Brassicaceae (n = 3), Fabaceae (n = 32), Poaceae (n = 8) and Polygonaceae (n = 1) plants. Among them, 21 are temperate and 25 are tropical species. Species were annual (n = 36) or perennial (n = 10). Their growth habit (creeping, erect or vines) is detailed in Table  A4 . In some cover crop trials (see the experimental design in Supplementary Information Figs A1 to A10), several cultivars were used in the same trial but in the analyses, they were considered as the same species. In the weed control trials, 18 cover crop mixtures were also tested (Table  1 ), the mixtures are detailed in Table  A5 , each mix included two species. 
 Cover crop traits and phenology were measured in the different trials (Table  2 ). Ground cover by crops (COV, %) was measured in each plot weekly using a visual notation method described in Supplementary Information Table  A6  and already used in previous studies  In addition to cover crop traits, in the weed control trials, we assessed two weed control efficiency indices in terms of weed ground cover (WCE COV ) and biomass (WCE DM ). Like for cover crop traits, a mean ground cover index for weed over time (COV Weed ) was calculated in each plot in each trial. Then for each plot containing cover crops, we assessed the WCE COV as follows: WCE COV = 1 - COV Weed,cc < COV Weed,pure > where COV Weed,cc is the mean ground cover by weeds in plots with cover crops and < COV Weed,pure > is the average COV Weed in control plots (pure weeds) in each trials. Similarly, the WCE DM was calculated based on final weed dry mass (DM Weed ) in control plots and in plot planted with cover crops: WCE DM = 1 - DM Weed,cc < DM Weed,pure > where DM Weed,cc is the aboveground weed dry mass in plots with cover crops and < DM Weed,pure > is the average aboveground weed dry mass in control plots in each trials. All experimental data are available online on CIRAD dataverse ( 
 First, we tested for a bias in the COV MEAN and COV RATE data in the cover crop trials between the different factors tested in this study (Supplementary Information B, Table  B1 ): location of the site, average daily temperature (T MEAN ), fertilization regime, cover crop genus, family, area of origin, life cycle and growth habit (Chi-square test using the chisq.test R function). A variance analysis based on a mixed linear model was performed on cover crop traits using the crop life cycle and the combined crop family x area of origin as fixed effects and the trial identification as random effect (R package nlme,  
 Traits and variables measured in the trials and used in the study. The identification of each trial (Trial ID) in which measurements were made is given. 0-1 indicates that the variable values ranged from 0 to 1. were added in the figures using the loess R function. Additional packages were used for plotting (ggplot2,  
 
 Due to the unbalanced design, possible biases related to the pedoclimatic contexts as well as to the choice of genus studied were assessed. No bias was found between the location of the site, average temperature and the genus, family, area of origin, life cycle and growth habit of the cover crops (Table  B1 ), except for a small bias between the area of origin and T MEAN (with 62 % of tropical cover crops grown at 23 • C versus 51 % for temperate species, Table  B2 ). On the contrary, the fertilization regime introduced a bias in the analyses notably in the area of origin and family of the cover crop (Table  B3 ). In the same site (La Mare) but in different years, COV MEAN was higher in trials with no fertilization than in trial including fertilization at the level of the cover crop species (Fig.  B1 ), highlighting the fact climate played a more important role in driving the growth of cover crops than fertilization in our trials. A strong bias was also observed between cover crop growth habits and other factors such as the genus, family, area of origin or life cycle of the cover crop (Table  B1 ). In particular, all vines and creeping species were Fabaceae whereas erect species were found in all families, including Fabaceae (Table  B4 ). Consequently, the growth habit factor could not be tested independently of all other factors, even within Fabaceae. 
 The performance of cover crops varied greatly depending on the genus of the cover crop (Fig.  1 ). COV MEAN ranged from 10 % to 60 %, and COV RATE ranged from 0.2 % d -1 to 1.7 % d -1 on average. Even if these two traits were linearly correlated (r = 0.84, n = 34, p < 0.0001), some genera had a high COV MEAN with a moderate COV RATE (e.g. Sinapsis) and conversely, a high COV RATE with a moderate COV MEAN (e. g. Raphanus). COV MEAN was significantly influenced by the life cycle (F 1,239 = 14.9, p = 0.0001) and the combined crop family x area of origin factor (F 6,239 = 3.5, p = 0.0024, Table  B5 , Fig.  2 ). Area of origin had no effect on COV MEAN within the Poaceae or Fabaceae species (Fig.  2a ). In temperate species, COV MEAN was higher in Asteraceae species than in Fabaceae (p = 0.0134), and the other families were between the two. In both tropical and temperate crop species, Fabaceae and Poaceae had similar COV MEAN . COV RATE response to life cycle and combined crop family x area of origin was similar to COV MEAN (Table  B5 , B6; Fig.  B2 ). Variations in other crop traits (H RATE , Leaf RATE , Emerg SDD and Flo SDD ) as a function of the family, area of origin and life cycle are detailed in Fig.  B2 . 
 Considering all cover crops (Fig.  3 ), a significant positive correlation Fig.  1 . Scatter plot of average mean ground cover (COV MEAN , %) and rate of increase in ground cover (COV RATE , % d -1 ) of the cover crop genus in the six cover crop trials. Each point is associated with the name of the genus concerned. The gray line represents the regression line. was shown between the two ground cover indices COV MEAN and COV-RATE (ρ SPEAR = 0.73, n = 254, p < 0.0001). Additional significant correlations were found between ground cover performance and other plant traits. COV MEAN was positively correlated with H RATE (ρ SPEAR = 0.4, n = 165, p < 0.0001), Leaf RATE (ρ SPEAR = 0.33, n = 158, p < 0.0001) and Flo SDD (ρ SPEAR = 0.22, n = 135, p = 0.0114) and negatively correlated with Emerg SDD (ρ SPEAR = -0.18, n = 161, p = 0.0210, Fig.  3 ). Based on a visual assessment, COV MEAN reached its maximum values when H RATE > 0.8 cm d -1 (Fig.  3b ). COV MEAN increased slightly with Leaf RATE and reached maximum values when the Leaf RATE was higher than 0.4 leaf d -1 (Fig.  3c ). The highest COV RATE was also found when Emerg SDD was less than 150 • d (Fig.  3d ). Other significant correlations found between plant traits are shown in Fig.  3a . Flo SDD was highly correlated with Leaf RATE (ρ SPEAR = 0.47, n = 96, p < 0.0001) and less with Emerg SDD (ρ SPEAR = 0.33, n = 136, p < 0.0001). Leaf RATE and H RATE were slightly but significantly correlated (ρ SPEAR = 0.26, n = 153, p = 0.0014). The correlations between ground cover variables and H RATE were still significant when only Fabaceae species or non-Fabaceae cover crops were considered (Fig.  B3 ). Nonetheless, Leaf RATE and Flo SDD were positively correlated with COV MEAN in Fabaceae crops (ρ SPEAR = 0.5, n = 122, p < 0.0001 and ρ SPEAR = 0.29, n = 120, p = 0.0015, respectively) but no correlations were found in non-Fabaceae crops (Fig.  B3 ). 
 Considering both pure and mixed stand, weed control efficiency indices based on weed cover (WCE COV ) and dry mass (WCE DM ) were linearly correlated (r = 0.67, n = 39, p < 0.0001). No difference in mean WCE COV and WCE DM were found between pure and mixed stands of cover crop (Table  B7, Figs. 4a, B4a ). Nonetheless, variance in WCE DM Fig.  2 . Mean ground cover (COV MEAN ) of the cover crop used in the cover crop trials depending on the crop family and area of origin (temperate or tropical) on one hand (a) and the life cycle in the other hand (annual or perennial, b). Crop families are abbreviated for Asteraceae (Astera.), Brassicaceae (Brassica.), Fabaceae (Faba.), Poaceae (Poa.) and Polygonaceae (Polyg.). The differences between combinations of factors were tested using a Dunn test and indicated by letters a and b. The number of samples in each category is indicated by "n". Fig.  3 . Spearman correlation (ρ SPEAR ) between cover crop traits in the cover crop trials (a). Significant positive and negative correlations are in blue and red circles, respectively. Relations between mean ground cover (COV MEAN ) and rate of increase in height (H RATE ) and leaf appearance rate (Leaf RATE ) are detailed in (b) and (c). The relation between the rate of increase in ground cover (COV RATE ) and thermal time for emergence (Emerg SDD ) is presented in (d). In each case, the number of samples is indicated (n) and a smooth regression was added using a polynomial smooth regression (blue line) with confidence interval (area shaded in light blue). was significantly lower in mixed stands than in pure stands (sd = 0.17 and 0.35, in pure and mixed stands respectively, F 15,27 = 0.24, p-value = 0.006) but no statistical difference was found for WCE COV (sd = 0.20 and 0.27, respectively, F 25,44 = 0.59, p = 0.155). In pure crops, WCE COV and WCE DM were significantly influenced by the combined area of origin and crop family factor (Table  B7 , p = 0.0001). In temperate species, WCE COV was higher in pure stand with Asteraceae species than Fabaceae species (Fig.  4b , Table  B8 , p = 0.0136), similarly to WCE DM (Fig.  B4 ). In tropical species, WCE COV was higher in pure stand with Poaceae species than Fabaceae species (Fig.  4b , Table  B8 , p = 0.0002), similarly to WCE DM (Fig.  B4 ). No difference in weed control were found between tropical and temperate species within crop family. The cover crops with the highest WCE COV were Guizotia abyssinica, Pennisetum glaucum and Avena sativa, as well as mixtures including these species (Fig.  4c ). On the contrary, Stylosanthes guianensis, Raphanus sativus and Crotalaria juncea and mixtures including these species had low WCE COV . Other species such as Canavalia ensiformis, Vicia villosa and Vigna unguiculata displayed intermediate weed control efficiency. Due to the high variability of weed control efficiency among cover crops, we have found no significant correlation between the level of infestation (weed cover or weed dry mass) in the neighboring control plots and weed control efficiency (WCE COV or WCE DM ). 
 In pure stands, WCE COV was positively correlated with COV MEAN (ρ SPEAR = 0.78, p = 0.0002), COV RATE (ρ SPEAR = 0.40, p < 0.0001), COV MAX (ρ SPEAR = 0.78, p = 0.0003) as well as H RATE (ρ SPEAR = 0.50, p = 0.0001) and ABV DM (ρ SPEAR = 0.63, p < 0.0001, Fig.  5 ). Similar correlations were found for WCE DM (Fig.  B5 ). The crop trait with the highest correlation with WCE DM was COV RATE (ρ SPEAR = 0.83, n = 20, p < 0.0001, Fig.  B5 ). On the contrary, correlations between weed control efficiency and leaf appearance rate were not significant. 
 
 Due to the particular design of the study, our results need to be evaluated taking into account possible biases related to the pedoclimatic contexts as well as to the choice of species studied. Although the location of the study site and temperature caused little systematic Fig.  4 . Weed control efficiency in terms of weed cover (WCE COV ) in pure cover plots or a mixture of two cover crops (a), depending on crop family and area of origin in pure plots (b) or depending on cover crop species (c) in the four weed control trials. Crop families are abbreviated for Asteraceae (Astera.), Brassicaceae (Brassica.), Fabaceae (Faba.) and Poaceae (Poa.). The difference between factors was tested using Dunn's test and is indicated by letters a, b and c. The number of samples in each category is indicated by "n". When cover crop plots were repeated in (c), standard error was added. bias at the scale of the categories studied, conclusions concerning species should be limited to species found in all three study sites. Further, as is true in any site-specific study, here species performance is linked to the pedo-climatic context in Reunion Island. Despite the fact that the fertilization regime introduced a bias in the analyses, species comparison at the same site with or without fertilization suggest that climate played a more important role in the growth of cover crops than fertilization. Additionally, the majority of cover crops studied in the cover crop trials were Fabaceae (n = 208) compared to other crop families (n = 55). This imbalance could bias the correlations found between plant traits and ground cover dynamics. Nonetheless, the majority of correlations remained unchanged when only Fabaceae crops or non-Fabaceae crops were considered (e.g. H RATE and COV MEAN ) except for the relation between ground cover and Leaf RATE and Flo SDD . 
 The increasing interest of producers and researchers in cover crops may have been encouraged by the many positive aspects attributed to cover cropping such as improving soil fertility and controlling pests, weeds and erosion  In intensive tropical agrosystems, the hypothesis of competition particularly for light is mainly put forward in weed regulation as the other resources are seldom limiting for plant growth (high fertilization rates, high rainfall or irrigation). As a consequence, in this study we chose to focus on the rate of increase in ground cover (COV RATE ) to identify species with early canopy closure and the mean ground cover over time (COV MEAN ) to optimize ground cover over many months. Our results showed that weed control by cover crops was improved using species with a high ground cover rate at the beginning of the growth (COV RATE ) and high ground cover over time (COV MEAN ). These observations confirm previous reports that species with early canopy closure generally show better weed suppression  When aiming to identify cover crop species adapted to new environments, assessing the efficiency of weed control may be challenging if a wide range of cover crops and mixtures is used, particularly due to the variability of plant performance related to soil and climate variability. However, plant traits could be considered as indicators of plant-driven processes thus making it possible to compare wide ranges of cover crops. In the current study, many crop traits were correlated with weed control efficiency but also with each other. Among them, the maximum ground cover was highly correlated with both mean ground cover over time and weed control efficiency. Being easy to measure, it is therefore a relevant trait to compare wide ranges of species under similar tropical conditions than Reunion Island. 
 Trait-based approaches have a high potential to identify the most suitable cover crops and traits to control weeds  Previous studies reported that Poaceae were often more efficient in controlling weeds than Fabaceae legume species  
 While the use of species with shading competition strategies could be very efficient to control weeds in crop rotations, in intercropping systems, their ability to be in the top layer in the canopy could have detrimental effects on the yield of the main crop. In our climatic context in Reunion Island, where sugarcane is the main crop, the use of erect species with high cover and biomass, like Pennisetum glaucum, Guizotia abyssinica or Avena sativa would be particularly useful in fallow periods (3-4 months) before replanting of sugarcane. To avoid competition in the case of a sugarcane-crop association, the choice should focus on creeping or vines species that compete strongly with weeds without producing lianas (such as Vigna unguiculata and Canavalia ensiformis). As cover crop performance varies greatly with climatic conditions and management practices  
 Our aim was to identify cover crop species and traits that optimize ground cover and weed control in tropical agrosystems, based on a set of ten trials performed in Reunion Island. Few differences were found in ground cover depending on the life cycle or crop family, but large differences were found depending on crop species. The ability of the cover crop to cover the soil rapidly and durably increased with an increase in the height or in the leaf appearance rate (in Fabaceae species) while ground cover ability tended to decrease with thermal time for emergence. No average difference in weed control was found between pure and mixed cover crops. Nonetheless, weed control was more efficient using species with a high rate of increase in ground cover and height or a lot of aboveground biomass. While cover crops can be chosen based on traits to maximize weed control, weed traits will also influence plantweed interactions. Consequently, the traits of the weed community should also be taken into account to choose the most suitable cover crops depending on natural flora. 			 European Journal ofAgronomy 128 (2021) 126316
. SOC stocks are, however, very vulnerable to land-use change  Thousands of individual studies that analyzed the effect of major drivers (i.e., land management, land-use change, or climate change) on SOC content have been published over the last decades  For a clear understanding and a critical assessment of current research efforts on determining changes in soil carbon, we provide a global and systematic synthesis of meta-analyses of SOC stocks or concentrations and their related original studies in the form of an evidence map (e.g.,  
 
 We conducted a literature search to retrieve all peer-reviewed metaanalyses that reported at least one effect size on SOC, expressed as a concentration (g C kg⁻ 1 soil or equivalent) or a stock (t C ha -1 or equivalent). The search was done on January 9, 2020 through the following academic databases: Web of Science Core Collection ( The initial literature search identified 1007 unique articles. The retrieved papers were then screened for the following selection criteria: (i) papers analyzed the direct effect of one or several drivers, including land management, land-use change, or climate change, on total SOC concentration or stock, and (ii) they presented a statistical formal analysis of at least two original studies on SOC. We did not consider vote-counting studies and narrative reviews. Each meta-analysis was screened twice, by two reviewers, independently of each other. A detailed description of the methodological framework is available in an associated DataPaper  The final database comprises 192 meta-analyses whose list and full description and characterization are available in open access in the CIRAD repository  
 We characterized the evidence based on the number of metaanalyses, their temporal evolution and geographical repartition, the number of effect sizes, original studies and experiments per landuse type, per driver of SOC change, and per type of outcome (other than SOC). The drivers of SOC change were categorized into three main categories: land management, land-use change, or climate change. Land management encompassed practices such as organic amendments and chemical fertilization, grazing, forest thinning, etc. Land-use change comprised conversion from one land use to another. The following land uses were considered: croplands, forest lands, grasslands, wetlands, and other lands, as defined in the IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories (IPCC, 2019b). Settlements were not considered here. The climate change category included drivers linked to climatic variables, such as warming and changes in precipitation, as well as increases in CO 2 concentration. We extracted all quantitative measures presented in the 192 meta-analyses, that is, the effect sizes of every single outcome reported in a meta-analysis. Thus, we did not only consider effect sizes related to SOC, but also those related to, for example, soil chemical or physical properties, or plant production characteristics. However, we did not extract the data from meta-regressions or correlations. Effect sizes, their confidence intervals or other indicators of uncertainty were directly extracted from the text and tables in the publications. When presented in figures, we used Plot Digitizer (http:// plotd igiti zer.sourc eforge.net/) to extract them. Furthermore, we retrieved the number of original studies and the number of observations used to calculate the effect size(s) in each meta-analysis. Indeed, each meta-analysis compiles observations from several original studies, each of these studies providing one or several independent observations. For each effect size, the outcome variable and its unit, as well as the associated soil, climate, and land-use type were precisely documented. We also extracted the list of original studies used in each metaanalysis. Each original study being characterized by its unique digital object identifier, we were able to identify the ones used in more than one meta-analysis, and to calculate the number of common original studies between each pair of meta-analyses. For each original study, we also extracted the information about the study location (country), and recorded the year of publication, the names of authors and their affiliation, and the journal name. The types of outcomes and drivers of SOC change in each of the original studies were determined, based on an automatic pre-classification  Finally, we evaluated the transparency and reproducibility of each of the meta-analyses using a set of criteria related to the literature review search, data extraction, data analyses, and interpretations. The list of criteria is based on the one proposed in  
 The geographical repartition was studied per country and for five world regions, that is, North America, Central and South America, Europe, Asia, Oceania, and Africa. The list of the countries within each region can be found in the Supplementary Materials. The number of meta-analyses and original studies were compared to the total SOC mitigation potential per land-use type retrieved from  All analyses and graphical representations were performed with the R software (R Core Team, 2020), tidyverse packages for data manipulation  2 ) and organic amendments (n = 29; 20%). Meta-analyses of mineral fertilization examined an average number of 370 observations, while the ones of organic amendments had an average number of 130 observations (Figure  2 ). Cropland management practices such as tillage (n = 25; 17%), crop residue management (n = 25; 17%), and crop rotations (n = 8; 5%) were also well represented in the retrieved meta-analyses. On the other hand, management practices on forest lands dealt mainly with harvest planning (n = 12; 8%), and those on grasslands with grazing (n = 15; 10%). Less than 10 meta-analyses analyzed the effect of pyrogenic amendments (e.g., charcoal), less than five of prescribed fire and only two of In the retrieved meta-analyses, effect sizes for SOC were mostly presented in combination with effect sizes for crop production, soil chemical, physical or biological properties, but this depended on the type of drivers of SOC change (Figure  2 ). For example, very few meta-analyses of land-use change and climate change analyzed simultaneously the effect on SOC and soil physical properties, water quality, or soil water regulation. 
 A large share of the scientific evidence synthetized in the metaanalyses of SOC originated from original studies conducted in the United States and China (20% and 26% of the total number of original studies, respectively, Figure  3 ). The concentration of the studies in a small number of countries has become even more pronounced in recent years. In contrast, several regions across the globe have been poorly investigated and very limited data of SOC responses exist in these regions. For example, in Oceania only 503 original studies (4%) were conducted, and numerous countries in Africa have less than 40 original studies, for example, the Democratic Republic of Congo and the Central African Republic-(Figure  3 ). Across regions, the predominant meta-analyses were those of land management practices. The proportion of meta-analyses of land-use change was higher in Central and South America (22%), as compared to Europe and North America (e.g., 7%-8% in Europe). In contrast, there was a higher proportion of meta-analyses of climate change in North America (27% of the studies in this region), Europe (26%) and to a lesser extent in Oceania (15%) and Asia (14%) than in Africa (6%) and South America (9%-Figure  3 ). Crop productivity and soil physical properties were proportionally more investigated as associated outcomes with SOC in the meta-analyses in Africa compared to the other regions of the world. However, very few meta-analyses combined SOC with GHGs as associated outcomes in this region (Figure  3 ). Associated outcomes in terms of soil biological properties were often presented in meta-analyses in Europe and to a lesser extent in Asia. North, Central, and South America presented a higher proportion of meta-analyses with soil chemical properties as associated outcomes with SOC. The meta-analyses mostly synthetized data from distinct original studies, even when they focused on the same driver of SOC change. Only 10%, 8%, and 19% of the meta-analyses investigating, respectively, the effects of land management, land-use change, and climate change, used more than 20% of common original studies (Figure  4 ). 
 The meta-analyses satisfied on average less than half of our 11 quality criteria (mean value: 45%-Figure  5 ), with no clear differences depending on the driver of SOC change that was studied (data not shown). Besides, the average quality of the meta-analyses did not seem to have improved in the last 15 years (Figure  S1 ). The number of academic research databases queried in the meta-analyses was generally low, with 37% of the meta-analyses using less than two databases, possibly resulting in the omission of relevant original studies. Gray literature was mostly ignored Finally, the reproducibility of the meta-analyses was questionable: 32% and 59% of the meta-analyses did not present enough details to reproduce the literature search and the statistical analyses, respectively. In 73% of the retrieved meta-analyses the data of the original studies used were not made available. 
 
 Despite a growing number of original studies and meta-analyses of SOC, our study shows that the evidence is narrowed to some we retrieved in our study (Figure  6 ). We also found a limited number of studies in Africa, with more than 80% of the countries having less than 40 original studies synthesised, even though Africa is the most vulnerable continent to the impacts of climate change on agriculture  F I G U R E 3 (a) Some land uses with high Soil carbon mitigation potential in 2030 (Figure  6 ) presented a relatively low number of meta-analyses and corresponding original studies. Wetlands have the highest C mitigation potential (1.96 Pg of CO 2 e year -1 ,  Similarly, studies on forest lands were half as represented in the retrieved meta-analyses than those on croplands while globally more than 40% of the total organic carbon in terrestrial ecosystems is stored in forest soils  F I G U R E Consequently, some specific ecosystems that are of major importance to achieving climate change mitigation have been neglected in the meta-analyses. For example, the peatlands of the Cuvette Centrale depression in the central Congo Basin cover ~145,500 km 2  Similarly, soils of the permafrost region that represent 15% of the global soil area and contains a large share of the world's soil carbon  
 Across the different land-types, a relatively low number of land management practices was intensively studied, whereas others were mostly neglected. Most studies on cropland management focused on mineral N fertilization, organic amendments, and crop residue management, leaving out several other practices, such as agroforestry and crop diversification. The latter practices have been shown to have a large potential in terms of SOC sequestration  Finally, the effect of practices like the use of deep-rooted annual crops  
 Feedbacks between SOC and climate are one of the largest sources of uncertainty for future climate projections  Almost no meta-analyses investigated the effect of climate on SOC in croplands, especially in tropical regions. Several practices have been identified to increase SOC stocks in croplands under current climate, but their capacity to increase SOC under future climate is largely unknown  
 The most studied drivers of SOC change in meta-analyses ( We argue that the focus of meta-analyses and original studies on a limited number of land management practices (Figure  2 ) may hinder the promotion and adoption of best practices for SOC sequestration, tailored to site-specific conditions. This relatively narrow evidence base may also undermine agricultural policy recommendations for climate change mitigation. Finally, recent inclusion of wetlands in international policy frameworks as part of climate change mitigation schemes and private initiatives to trade ecosystem services can constitute a significant incentive to address wetland management worldwide and could lead to a future increasing number of studies on this topic  
 Evidence syntheses, such as meta-analyses, are to be a regular complement to primary scientific research in order to maximize the effectiveness of scientific research  We illustrated the scope for improvement in the different steps of data synthesis, that is, data retrieval, curation, evaluation, and analysis. Future progress with meta-analyses and their quality for briefing policy decisions can, however, be compromised by the nonavailability of the underlying data used in the meta-analyses (73% in our study). Therefore, advances must be made so to give full and unbiased access to scientific data in line with open science practices  
 Our study presents a global overview of 192 meta-analyses of SOC compiling 13,270 original studies. We highlighted a mismatch between the available evidence and geographic regions with high SOC stocks or high carbon storage potential. Moreover, most of the meta-analyses focused on a limited number of land management practices (e.g., mineral nitrogen fertilization, organic amendments). These knowledge gaps may hinder the formulation of evidencebased recommendations to promote SOC sequestration practices at the global scale. This synthesis is, therefore, a call to the soil science community to diversify the portfolio of options that allow increasing or preserving SOC stocks, to intensify original research
Nitrogen (N) is the "very stuff of life" in that it drives the machinery of every living cell and is required by all living organisms  Globally, it is estimated that between 30% and 50% of applied N-fertiliser is taken up by crops  Nutrient use efficiency is generally defined as the ability of a crop to acquire nutrients from a growth medium and to incorporate or utilize these nutrients in the production of harvestable plant material, aboveground biomass or total plant biomass (including belowground biomass)  Most studies using the 15 N method to estimate the Nfertiliser recovery in sugarcane agroecosystems have focused on fertiliser NRE at the end of the crop cycle  To assess the NUE in sugarcane agroecosystems, it is necessary to assess i) sugarcane biomass, ii) N concentration and iii) the proportion of cane-N derived from fertiliser. Sugarcane biomass was classically obtained from destructive sampling or simulated with sugarcane growth models  The aim of our study was to propose a method that minimises destructive sampling to quantify NUE over the crop growth cycle of sugarcane plantations, using the quantitative NRE index. The objectives were therefore: 1/ to test whether the biomass of sugarcane can be determined non-destructively at a plot scale by using allometric relationships; 2/ to minimise the number of harvested cane required to build an N-dilution curve; 3/ to determine the most relevant leaf for determining 15 N concentration in the aboveground biomass; and 4/ to assess the sensitivity of the NRE calculation depending on the chosen methods. 
 
 The study site was located at the La Mare experiment station, near Saint-Denis on Réunion Island (20°54′ 12.2″S, 55°31′46.6″E). The experimental trial took place in a highly monitored site belonging to the SOERE-PRO (best translated in English as System of Observations, Experiments and Environmental Research on Organic Residual Waste) network designed to investigate the long-term impact of organic fertilization on the different compartments of the sugarcane agroecosystem. The site was characterized by a tropical climate with an average annual temperature of 25 °C and annual precipitation of 1650 mm. The soil was a silty clay Nitisol (WRB 2015) with a cation exchange capacity (CEC) of 108.6 mmol/kg and a top soil organic carbon content of 2%. Sugarcane cultivar R579 was planted at the trial site in March 2014 within a 1.5 m row-spacing configuration. The trial was irrigated throughout the crop cycle (29 mm/week) except for the last 2 months before harvest. The trial included six treatments, each with a different fertiliser, replicated in five blocks. Each plot contained six rows of sugarcane 28 m long that resulted in a total plot area of 250 m 2 . The measurements in this study were conducted during the third ratoon crop in a control plot fertilized with urea. In this plot, 97 kg N ha -1 was applied following the annual harvest in December 2016 and 44 kg N ha -1 in March 2017. Cane biomass and allometric relationship with measurable parameters Twenty individual sugarcanes were harvested at 6 sampling dates in order to establish allometric relationships (Table  1 ). Four individual cane shoots (dry leaves, tops and stalk), were collected within 5 height classes representative of the height distribution in the experimental plot. The 5 height classes were determined as the mean of each quintile of sugarcane heights measured in four 2 m linear subplots. The dry biomass of the 20 canes were weighed after they were oven-dried at 60 °C for 72 h. Different allometric relationships were tested, by fitting models that included plant aboveground dry biomass and a range of measurable cane traits. The cane traits included height to the top visible dewlap (h TVD ) and the diameter of the base of the cane stalk (D b ) measured for each of the 20 sugarcane collected at each date. Various functions were tested (data not shown for this preliminary test) to determine the best fit; that is, linear, power, exponential and second degree polynomials, using the nls function to fit the function to the data points; and the aic (Akaike Information Criterion) criteria to rank the best fitting functions with R version 3.3.2. software (R Development Core Team 2016). The power function between the plant aboveground dry biomass and cane traits was used as allometric relationship because it showed the lowest AIC. We compared allometric relationship, depending on cane traits and sampling dates, for estimating sugarcane biomass along the crop growth-cycle. Two types of models were tested: local models (n = 20), where allometric relationships were established for each specific date, and global models (n = 120), where a unique allometric relationship was established across all sampling dates. Consequently, we compared four types of allometric relationships to predict plant aboveground dry mass: 1/ a local model using only h TVD ; 2/ a global model using only h TVD ; 3/ a local model using h TVD combined with D b ; 4/ a global model using h TVD combined with D b (models summarized in Table  A ). To test these allometric relationships, an additional 2m linear subplot of sugarcane (3 m 2 ) was collected at each sampling date. Dry mass, h TVD and D b were determined for each cane shoot and the sum taken to estimate the plot aboveground dry biomass (kg m -2 ). Similarly, the sugarcane dry biomass (kg m -2 ) was estimated at each date from the four models. The mean difference between estimated and observed plot aboveground biomass (Δ%), was finally used to select the best allometric relationship model. 
 The 20 cane shoots (dry leaves, tops and stalk) collected on the 5 sampling dates (Table  1 ) from different locations in the plot to build allometric relationships were analysed for their N concentration. All dried samples were ground to pass a 1 mm mesh using a Universal Cutting Mill (PULVERISETTE 19, Fritsch) and analysed for N with an elemental analyzer (Vario Max Cube CNS, Elementar, Hanau, Germany) in the CIRAD laboratory in Saint-Denis (La Réunion, France). A reference dilution curve was constructed between biomass estimations at the plot scale over the 5 sampling dates and the N content of the 20 sampled canes per dates (power function, nls function). The sum square error was calculated and defined as SSE 20 . The minimum number of cane shoots required to estimate the N content was investigated to minimize the number of harvested cane. To do this, we compared the reference N dilution curves with dilution curves built with a lower numbers of canes. As an example, we built a new dilution curve using 5 canes per dates and calculated the SSE of this new regression (in that example SSE 5 ). Then we estimate the SSE from the nested model including data from the 20 original canes plus the 5 sampled canes, named SSE 20 + 5 . Finally, we calculated the Fisher statistics as follows: F ¼ SSE 20þ5 -SSE 20 -SSE 5 ð Þ p 20 þ p 5 -p 20þ5 À Á SSE 20 þ SSE 5 ð Þn-p 20 -p 5 ð Þ Where p is the number or parameters of each regression (2 in this case) and n the number of data (here 5 × 20). This F statistic was compared to the Fisher-Snedecor tables (α = 5%). If not statistically different, the dilution curve was defined as "successful". For a 5 shoot sample, the operation was repeated 5000 times to take account of variability in the reference sampling. The probability of obtaining a dilution curve different from that of the reference curve (P DIFF ) was determined for 15, 10, 5 and 2 sugarcanes respectively at the 5 dates. For 'non-successful' dilution curves, which were not identical to the reference curve, a 95% confidence interval was established (CI 95% ). This was the interval where there was a 95% probability of obtaining the reference curve that differed from the reference curve. The same approach was used to test whether the same dilution curve would be obtained for sugarcane sampled on 3 dates rather than 5 dates. 
 The N derived from fertiliser was estimated using sugarcane leaf samples collected from microplots that have received fertiliser labeled 15 N for the determination of 15 N abundance (% atoms 15 N)  On four of the sampling dates (Table  1 ), one individual cane shoot was harvested at the center of each of the three microplots to test the reliability of each leaf to represent the overall biomass 15 N. The first 5 leaf blades were separated from the sugarcane plant to test which leaf had a 15 N signature closest to the aboveground biomass. The numbering of leaves followed the Kuijper's leaf numbering system (1915), where "leaf+ 1" is considered as the first leaf connected to the top visible dewlap (TVD) and the leaf number increases moving down the cane stalk (i.e. "leaf+2" is the second leaf below the TVD, etc.). To assess the 15 N signature of each of the leaves or aboveground biomass, all samples were ground to pass a 500 μm screen using a Cyclotec grinder (CT Tecator Cyclotec Sample Mill, Foss), sent to the PTEF laboratory in Nancy (Plateforme Technique d'Ecologie Fonctionnelle, INRA, France), where samples were further ground to pass a 100 μm screen using a mixer mill (MM400, Retsch) and analysed for N and 15 N concentrations with an Elemental analyzer (Vario ISOTOPE Cube, Elementar, Hanau, Germany) interfaced in line with a gas isotope ratio mass spectrometer (IsoPrime 100, Isoprime Ltd., Cheadle, UK). Nitrogen derived from fertiliser (NdfF, the proportion of N in the plant derived from fertiliser, %) was determined by the following formula: NdfF ¼ a-b c-d ! :100 ð1Þ where a is the abundance of 15 N atoms in the plant (%), b is the natural abundance of 15 N atoms in a control unlabeled plant sample (%), c is the abundance of 15 N atoms in the fertiliser (%) and d is the natural abundance of 15 N atoms of a standard (0.366%). The difference (%ΔNdfF) between NdfF of each of the plant leaves and the aboveground biomass was determined for each sampling date. The average aboveground NdfF was compared with the average NdfF estimated from each leaf using a t.test. 
 The nitrogen recovery efficiency (NRE) was calculated at four dates (Table  1 ) from aboveground biomass, crop N content and NdfF. Due to sugarcane's ability to uptake N via roots at considerable distances from the stem of the plant  NdfF T ¼ NdfF M þ 2 Â NdfF AR ð2Þ where NdfF T is the sum of the NdfF determined from the centre of the 15 N microplot (NdfF M ) and the NdfF from the two adjacent cane rows in line with the microplot (NdfF AR ). The assumption was that the uptake of N by sugarcane in the row adjacent to the microplot would be the same as the N uptake of the sugarcane inside the microplot, taken from the row adjacent  Nitrogen recovery in the plant biomass was calculated according to: NRE ¼ Nd f F T *N plant N f ertiliser ð3Þ where NRE is the recovery efficiency of fertiliser N in the plant (%), N plant is the quantity of N in the plant (g.m -2 ) and N fertiliser is the quantity of N applied with the fertiliser (g.m -2 ). We assessed the influence of the different methods of estimation of biomass, N content and NdfF, on the NRE estimation. A reference method was defined based on 1) the best allometric relationship in estimating sugarcane biomass at a plot scale, 2) the reference dilution curve based on 20 harvested canes and 3) the NdfF calculated with the aboveground 15 N signature. NRE was additionally determined using other methods to assess the influence of biomass, N content and NdfF. Considering biomass, the tested methods included the local and global models based on height, diameter and height x diameter. Considering the N concentration, N dilution curves built using 5 and 2 cane shoots were tested. Considering the NdfF, the methods tested included the use of the leaf+1, the leaf+2, the leaf+3, the leaf+4 and the leaf+5 (the leaf number referring to the position of the leaf below the top visible dewlap). The effect of the different methods (biomass, N and NdfF) and their interaction on the NRE estimation was assessed using a linear variance analysis (ANOVA). The percentage variance of each estimation method was then calculated using the following equation: var method ¼ SSE method ΣSSE ð4Þ where var method is the percentage variance of a method; SSE method is the sum of squares of the respective method and ΣSSE is the sum of the sum of squares of all the ANOVA parameters. 
 
 The first step in determining the N-fertiliser recovery efficiency (NRE) over the sugarcane growth-cycle, was the estimation of the sugarcane aboveground biomass at a plot scale, using allometric relationships. The accumulation of aboveground dry biomass as the growth-cycle progressed followed a similar trend for all of the allometric relationship models except for the global diameter model (Fig.  1 ). The measured dry biomass varied from 0.684 kg.m -2 at 3 months to 3.960 kg.m -2 at 11 months (Fig.  1 ). However, the ability of the different allometric relationship models to estimate biomass was variable. The local models estimated cane dry biomass using different equations at each crop age to best approximate the measured biomass (Fig.  2 , Table  2 , Table  S1 ). When using only cane height to estimate cane biomass in a local model, the mean difference (Δ%) across sampling dates between measured values and estimated biomass values was 5 ± 4% with a mean R 2 of 0.86. When only basal diameter was used to estimate biomass in a local model, the mean difference was 8 ± 6% with a mean R 2 of 0.74. In turn, when height was coupled with basal diameter, the mean difference was 4 ± 2% with a mean R 2 of 0.93. The global models used the same model with the same parameters across sampling dates (Fig.  2 , Table  2 ). The mean differences (Δ%) across sampling dates between measured values and estimated biomass values with the global models were 10 ± 5%, 57 ± 30% and 9 ± 4% with models based on cane height (R 2 = 0.95), basal diameter (R 2 = 0.79) and combined height and diameter (R 2 = 0.98), respectively (Fig.  2b, d, f ). 
 The following step in determining the NRE, was to determine the N content of the sugarcane aboveground biomass at a plot scale using an N dilution curve. This was optimised to test for the minimum number of cane required to construct an effective N dilution curve. Based on a reference N dilution curve constructed with 20 canes sampled on 5 dates, aboveground N content was estimated as 9.0 mg.g -1 , 5.3 mg.g -1 , 4.0 mg.g -1 , 3.7 mg.g -1 and 2.4 mg.g -1 at 3, 4, 5, 6 and 8 months, respectively (Fig.  3 ). When sampling fewer than 20 cane on 5 dates to construct an N dilution curve, the probability of obtaining a dilution curve that differed from the reference curve of 20 canes (P DIFF ), was 0%, 0.9%, 3.2% and 4.9% for 15-, 10-, 5-and 2-canes sampled respectively (Fig.  3a ). In the instances where different N dilution curves were obtained, the estimation error (CI 95% ) on aboveground N content reached ±2 mg g -1 for 10-and 5-canes sampled, and ± 4 mg g -1 for 2-canes sampled, at the beginning of the growth (i.e. where cane has a corresponding low aboveground dry biomass, Fig.  3a ). Considering older crops (i.e. high aboveground dry biomass), the estimation error was similar (± 1 mg g -1 from 5 months after harvest) whatever the number of cane sampling (Fig.  3a ). When sampling fewer than 20 cane on 3 dates to construct an N dilution curve, rather than 5 dates, the probability of obtaining a dilution curve that would differ from the reference curve was 0.52%, 2.96%, 5.22% and 5.5% for 15-, 10-, 5-and 2-cane sampled respectively (Fig.  3b ). In the instance where different dilution curves were obtained from the reference curve, the error in estimating aboveground N content was similar to the previous scenario where cane was sampled on 5 dates. Isotopic 15 N enrichment of sugarcane leaf and whole cane The final step in determining the NRE, was the calculation of the NdfF using a sugarcane leaf with an 15 N signature most representative of that of the aboveground biomass. The NdfF of the whole aboveground sugarcane decreased steadily with cane age, being 40% 3 months after harvest, decreasing to 22%, 20% and finally to 15% at 5, 8 and 11 months after harvest, respectively (Table  3 ). There was no significant difference between the NdfF calculated from 15 N signature of each of the leaves sampled and that of the entire aboveground sugarcane on each sampling date (Table  3 ). However, the proximity of the 15 N signature of the leaves to that of the whole cane shoot varied between the different leaves on the four sampling dates (Table  3 ). The first and second leaves below the top visible dewlap (L + 1 and L + 2) had the closest 15 N value to the aboveground biomass over the sugarcane growth period, with an average relative difference (ΔNdfF %) of 9% for leaf+1 and 10% for leaf+2. In comparison, the average relative difference was higher for the third, fourth and fifth leaves, with an average ΔNdfF % of 23, 25 and 27% for leaf +3, +4 and + 5, respectively. 
 The N-fertiliser recovery was variable over time, being 19% at 3 and 5 months, and then decreasing to 14% at 8 months and 12% at 11 months after harvest, using the reference method [height x diameter global model for estimating the aboveground dry biomass, 20 cane harvested for N content and the whole plant 15 N content for NdfF (Fig.  4 )]. The relative influence of each estimation method for aboveground biomass, N content and NdfF on the NRE assessment was tested by taking account of the variability in estimation methods (Fig.  4a-c ). The percentage variance of the NRE for the four sampling dates over the crop cycle, explained by each respective method, was 13% in leaf choice for NdfF and less than 2% for biomass estimation and N content estimation (Fig.  4d ). The crop age explained 54% of NRE variability over the growth cycle. The interactions crop age x biomass and crop age x NdfF explained 10% and 19% of NRE variability respectively, highlighting the influence of these estimation methods at the beginning of the growth (3 months, Fig.  4a, c ).  
 
 A non-destructive method to estimate biomass Allometric relationships, as a non-destructive approach, were an effective method to estimate sugarcane biomass. In the present study, aboveground biomass was best estimated using height coupled with basal diameter. Height was also an effective estimator of biomass, but deviated more from the measured biomass at certain dates than height coupled with diameter. Diameter on its own, however, was not an effective estimator of biomass when a single, global model was used across dates. This finding differs from that of Youkhana et al. (  2017 ), which appears to be the single published study where allometric relationships were used to estimate biomass for sugarcane, and where stalk diameter was found to be the best estimator of sugarcane aboveground biomass. Although different sugarcane cultivars subject to different pedo-climatic conditions were used in the two studies, the more likely reason for the disparity in findings is due to the temporal variability considered only in this study. If sugarcane biomass was only considered at harvest in our study, biomass estimated using only diameter (which would imply using the local diameter model at the last sampling date in this study) would also have given a value close to that of the measured biomass. There is a large amount of variation in sugarcane morphological forms depending on plant cultivars and pedo-climatic conditions. Culm diameter, for example, is a morphological trait that varies widely between sugarcane plants  The advantage of using allometric relationships to estimate biomass is that they can be used at multiple scales; from a linear meter (rather than harvesting individual canes) to the plot scale (rather than being limited to a harvested subplot). In addition, given that the method is non-destructive, the growth of biomass may be followed throughout the sugarcane growth cycle. This would allow for the study of Different letters indicated significant differences (n = 3). The relative differences between NdfF of the different leaves and the aboveground biomass is given (ΔNdfF, %)   S1 ) Variable each month (Fig.  1 ) 
 Variable each month (Table  S1 ) Variable each month (Fig.  1 ) 8 ± 6 % HD local Variable each month (Table  S1 ) Variable each month (Fig.  1  In a nearby experiment with the same cultivar (to the current study), these same allometric relationships were tested in their ability to estimate sugarcane biomass for different fertiliser treatment typesin fertilised and nonfertilised plots. The allometric relationships appeared to work effectively for both treatment types, differing by 6% from the measured (cut & weighed) cane for the fertilised plot and by 10% for the unfertilised plot. This suggests allometric relationships would indeed be applicable to other sites and fertiliser management conditions. A reduced number of cane required to estimate N content at a plot scale This study successfully managed to reduce the number of sugarcane shoots sampled per date in order to iii: choice of plant organ in calculating NdfF; iv / Crop age at which sugarcane was sampled and v/ interaction between crop age and biomass; vi/ interaction between crop age and NdfF; vii/ other interactions between variables construct an N dilution curve and effectively estimated the total N of sugarcane at a plot scale throughout the crop cycle. Sampling 5 sugarcane shoots on 3 dates over the sugarcane crop growth-cycle was sufficient to establish an N dilution curve, from which N content at a plot scale could be calculated using the corresponding plot biomass. To our knowledge, this is the first study to assess the required number of harvested sugarcane shoots to establish a dilution curve. In comparison, the number of cane shoots harvested in a previous study to determine an N dilution curve, was approximately 2 m per sampling date (de Oliveira et al. 2013). Sampling 5 sugarcane shoots per month had a low probability of differing from sampling 20 shoots and could therefore be considered sufficient to construct an N dilution curve. Using 3 rather than 5 sampling dates did not change the shape of the dilution curve and its ability to estimate sugarcane total N at the plot scale. This greatly reduced the amount of destructive sampling required and was shown to be sufficient in establishing a dilution curve to determine the mean N content of sugarcane at a plot scale, while limiting the risk of errors. This would be especially important in contexts where the crop consists of multiple cultivars and/or fertiliser treatments, whereby each cultivar and/or plot subject to a different fertiliser type would require separate dilution curves to estimate the total sugarcane N. 
 Our study confirmed the use of a single leaf as a proxy for the 15 N content of the entire aboveground biomass of the corresponding sugarcane  In general, leaves have a more rapid turnover in N cycling than other plant organs, and the selection of a single leaf can therefore lead to inaccuracies in the estimation of NRE. If younger leaves were selected following a pulse of 15 N, this would inevitably lead to an overestimation of the fertiliser N contribution to the crop, and should therefore be avoided. Conversely, towards the end of the sugarcane growth-cycle, 15 N is progressively lost from the lower leaves that have returned to the ground as litterfall, and the selection of an older leaf can potentially lead to an overestimation of the NRE. Younger leaves are supplied with N from both the soil and old plant organs. The translocation of N from old plant organs, including the stem and older leaves, to the newly emerging leaves can explain why the first and second leaves below the top visible dewlap remained the best predictors of the aboveground biomass in our study. 
 The N-fertiliser recovery efficiency decreased from 19 to 12% over the sugarcane crop growth-cycle in the present study and demonstrated that values of fertiliser NRE can be underestimated by 37% when considered only at harvest. Kee  In order to determine the NRE at different time intervals over the sugarcane growth-cycle, and therefore to capture its variability, an integration of different nondestructive methods was required. Here, the attempt has been to optimise these methods, by testing several scenarios where both the level of destruction was minimised and the NRE value remained as close as possible to the reference. The different methods of estimating the parameters (biomass, N content, NdfF) needed for calculating the NRE do not, however, impact the NRE to the same extent. Following crop age, the NRE was most strongly influenced by the choice of leaf used to represent the 15 N content of the entire aboveground biomass in calculating the NdfF. In our study, the use of "older leaves" (leaf +3, +4, +5) would have resulted in an average over-estimation of NRE by 33%, 8% and 39% at 3, 5 and 11 months, respectively. This is why leaf choice combined with age was also responsible for a high percent variance in our study, since NRE is impacted more by leaf choice at certain phases of the growth-cycle than others. The different methods of estimation of the biomass and the N content showed limited impact on the NRE computations. We therefore propose an integrated procedure, involving an allometric model, a dilution curve and "young leaves", to study NUE throughout the crop growth-cycle in sugarcane agroecosystems. Although consistent with Kee  
 Although optimised for sugarcane, our integrated set of methods should be applicable to all sugarcane varieties, as well as to most giant C4 crops. We have used the term "giant C4 crops" to categorise crops which have an architecture that lends itself well to the construction of allometric relationships. The cylindrical morphology of these crops, with a long stem and sufficiently large width, resembles a structural form between that of trees and grasses, hence the term "giant" C4 crops. It is primarily C4 crops which fall under this category, but certain C3 crops, such as Arundo donax, which is supposedly a "promising energy crop" of the Mediterranean regions  The spatial configuration of these crops favours the use of N dilution curves. In other words, there is a high density of crops, and the harvesting of a few stalks will have a minimal impact on the rest of the plantation. At the same time, a spatial configuration with interrows better enables the use of 15 N microplots. Nitrogen dilution curves have been documented only more recently for sugarcane (de Oliveira et al. 2013), but have been used more frequently for other giant C4 crops such as maize  15 N labeled microplots is still a method used frequently in contexts such as Brazil  An alternative non-destructive method of determining crop biomass and corresponding N content is by using remote sensing. Several methods have been used to predict crop production parameters from aerial images. The performance of remote sensing is variable depending on the crop, with good estimations of biomass and N content for canola and corn for example  Another possibility is to couple remote sensing with 3D imaging. This has not yet been tested for sugarcane, but a parallel could be drawn to wheat, for which a recent study found an r 2 of 0.79 between the 3D imaging estimation of aboveground biomass and biomass measured by harvesting  One promising method seems to be the use of a radiative transfer model that would improve robustness and transferability of remote sensing approaches  
 This study highlighted how NUE varies along the sugarcane crop growth-cycle. If it is only considered (as is usually the case) at crop harvest, the fate of fertilizer N could be incorrectly interpreted, highlighting the necessity to estimate NUE at various stages along the crop growth cycle. In order to calculate NRE (the quantitative index of NUE) along the sugarcane growth-cycle, the proposed methods gave the best estimate of NRE with minimal destruction, and were an integration of the following: 1/ the use of a global allometric model, using both cane height and diameter to estimate corresponding biomass at a plot scale; 2/ the use of an N dilution curve using a minimum of five sugarcane at a minimum of three dates; 3/ determining the NdfF using the 15 N content of the first or second leaf below the top visible dewlap as a proxy for the 15 N content of the cane aboveground biomass. The NRE calculation was mostly impacted by crop age, and secondly, by the choice of the most appropriate sugarcane component in the NdfF calculation. Given the importance of temporal variability in NRE, this proposition of minimally destructive methods could provide an effective means of evaluating the NUE over the crop growth-cycle, hence allowing sugarcane N demands to be better synchronized with fertilizer N-supply. The originality in this approach is the use of these methods together, while minimising the number of crops harvested, in conjunction with the use of a 15 N representative plant organ, to determine the NRE at different stages of the growth cycle of giant C4 crops in a minimally destructive way. The use of this approach should be calibrated for the crop and site of interest for it to function optimally. PlantSoil (2020) 453:597-613   
			 √ -√ √
Recycling organic waste products (OWPs) in agriculture sustains the ecosystem services provided by soils and achieves yields at least equivalent to those obtained with mineral fertilisers  OWPs are an appropriate alternative for use in sustainable agriculture when the cost of mineral fertilisation is high or its efficiency is low, especially in tropical contexts  In sub-Saharan Africa, the agronomic characteristics of OWPs are rarely measured and are often not known by farmers. Determining the appropriate doses of OWP for crop fertilisation is thus a major challenge in agro-ecological production systems. The N, P and K fertilisation values of OWP are determined according to their total content and in the case of N and P, the proportions in organic and mineral form. However, the proportions of N and P in the organic fraction available to the plant depend on the mineralisation of OWP in the soil. Complete mineralisation of organic N from OWP can take several years and varies according to the characteristics and type of OWP, soil properties, cultivation practices and climatic conditions  Combining chemical fertilisers with OWPs simultaneously increases mineralisation of nitrogen in the OWPs and the immobilisation of nitrogen fertiliser in soil aggregates  We grew three vegetable crops in rotation in four annual campaigns on an arenosol to assess the impact of different types of OWPs on yields during the crop cycle and after several years. The aim was to evaluate (i) whether the different organic fertilisation treatments produced similar yields and similar to those obtained with purely mineral fertilisation, and (ii) the impact of repeated applications of nutrients on cumulative yields after four years of cultivation. 
 
 The experiment was conducted at the Senegalese Agricultural Research Institute (Institut Sénégalais de Recherche Agricole, ISRA) experimental station in Sangalkam in the region of Dakar, the capital city of Senegal (14 • 47 34 N and 17 • 13 30 W), at the southern end of the Niayes area, the main market gardening production basin in Senegal. The soil is an arenosol  1 ). The surface horizon has a C/N ratio of 13 and a CEC of 9.6 cmol (+) •kg -1 dominated by Ca and Mg. The bulk density is 1.3 kg•dm -3 .  
 The methods used to measure the physical and chemical parameters are referenced in  1 ) using a gouge auger. The bulk density was measured using the sand method (NF X 31-503). The particle size and chemical properties were measured after sieving to 2 mm by the IRD IMAGO Unit in Dakar. For the particle size study, five soil fractions were measured using the Robinson pipette method  
 The experiment consisted of 21 square plots whose sides measured 8 metres. To reproduce the same growing conditions as on local farms, each plot consisted of six bands 1 m wide and 8 m long (i.e., 6 × 8 m 2 cultivated area per plot) spaced at 0.4 m intervals. The 21 plots represented a randomized design of seven treatments each repeated three times: -MF: mineral fertilisation treatment based on N-P 2 O 5 -K 2 O (10-10-20) with added mineral N (a form of urea) and K (a form of potassium sulphate); -Sewage sludge (SS)-1: dried sewage sludge with added mineral N and K; -SS-2: double the SS-1 dose; -Poultry litter (PL)-1: poultry litter with added mineral N and K; -PL-2: double the PL-1 dose; -Anaerobic digestate (AD)-1: digestate from anaerobic digestion of cow manures with added mineral N and K; -AD-2: double the AD-1 dose. These treatments were applied to the soil surface at each cycle and were never buried; no tillage was carried out. The MF treatment corresponded to that recommended by technical institutes in Senegal. Farmers in the Niayes region use mineral fertilisers alone sometimes but very frequently combined with these types of organic manures  2 ). The AD treatment could not be used on the lettuce and carrot crops in the first campaign due to non-availability. In addition, the digestate showed variable properties and was very often too liquid to provide nutrients in the desired quantities. For each of the 21 plots, 18 soil samples were taken with a gouge auger and mixed for analysis. These samples were then immediately transported to the laboratory for drying and sieving. The dry matter content of the OWP is calculated by the ratio: dry matter mass/initial gross mass of the sample. The total nitrogen was determined with an elementary AutoAnalyzer according to NF ISO 10,694 and NF ISO 13878. The total phosphorus was determined by automatic colourimetric determination with a hot attack by aqua regia (mixture of 10 mL HCl and 5 mL HNO 3 ) for five hours in a microwave oven (Murphey and Riley method). Potassium was measured by ammonium acetate extraction (NF X 31-108). 
 The market garden crops were cultivated identically on all of the plots from February 2016 to March 2020. One rotation of lettuce, carrot and tomato each year corresponded to one cropping campaign. Thus, four campaigns were conducted over the course of the whole experiment. The lettuce and tomato plants were sown in a nursery and transplanted to the experimental plots 25 days after sowing. The carrot seeds were sown directly in the plots after opening the furrows. One month after the carrot seeds were sown, thinning was carried out to correct possible heterogeneities. Irrigation was carried out daily at a rate of four watering cans (total 44 L) per band (8 m 2 ) for all of the crops. Weeding and hoeing was carried out regularly for each crop. No pesticides were applied to the crops during the cycles. The MF mineral treatment was applied in two stages to minimise nitrogen losses through volatilisation. Half the crop N, P and K requirements (Table  2 ) were applied just after the lettuce or tomato plants were transplanted and the carrots were thinned. The other half was applied in the middle of the cycle of the corresponding crop. This mineral treatment consisted of a 10N/10P/20K fertiliser and supplements of N in the form of urea and K in the form of potassium sulphate. The organic treatments were applied three days before the lettuce and tomato plantlets were transplanted or the carrot seeds were sown. Supplementary N with urea and K with potassium sulphate were also applied in the middle of the crop cycle in each organic treatment (Table  2 ). 
 The lettuce cycles all lasted 63 days and started between early February and mid-April (Table  3 ). The carrot cycles lasted from 85 to 100 days and started between the end of April and the end of June. The tomato cycles started between mid-November and the end of November and lasted from 113 to 127 days depending on the maturity of the fruits. The first fruits were harvested in February in campaigns 1, 3 and 4, i.e., respectively, 84, 100 and 89 days after sowing. In campaign 2, the first fruits were harvested in March, 96 days after sowing. The temperatures were measured in the plot and monthly averages ranged from 21.9 • C in February 2017 to 30.8 • C in July 2018 (Figure  1 ). The maximum temperature differences between the campaigns were observed from April to August while for the months of December, February and March, the differences were one to two degrees between years. The rainfall data (Table  4 ) were extracted from the Geoportal weather forecast ( 
 All the crops were harvested by hand. The leaves and roots of the lettuce and carrots were cut at the collar and the remaining biomass was weighed. The lettuce and carrots yields were calculated according to the planting density (10 lettuce plants per m 2 and 56 carrot plants per m 2 ) and the total biomass of the leaves and roots, respectively, according to the formula: Yield (kg•m -2 ) = (total measured biomass (kg) × planting density)/number of plants harvested Not all the tomato fruits were ripe at the same time. The tomato harvest was spread out over five weeks, with one harvest per week. At each harvest, deformed, rotten or attacked fruits were separated from intact fruits. The yields were calculated based on the total production (five harvests) of healthy fruit and the planting density (4 tomato plants per m 2 ) using the same formula. To evaluate the yield change rate (YCR) between campaigns, we used the following calculation (for example between campaign N and campaign N + 1): YCR (%) = 100 × (yield campaign N + 1yield campaign N)/yield campaign N After harvesting, a representative sample of 2 kg is taken for each plot. The lettuce, carrot and tomato samples were washed twice with fresh water to remove adhering soil particles and then twice with distilled water. They were then dried in an oven at 65 • C. The total nitrogen was determined by dry combustion (Dumas method). Statistical analyses were performed using with XLstat version 2019.lnk. An analysis of variance (ANOVA) was applied to the yield data for each crop data on soil chemical parameters and total N content to test the effects of the treatments of campaigns and of their interaction (treatments * campaigns). The means of the levels of each factor were ranked using the Newman-Keuls test at the 5% probability level with a 95% confidence interval. The conditions for the application of ANOVA had previously been tested, in particular the normality of the distribution of the measured variables. A Pearson correlation test was performed to understand the variation in yields in relation to direct inputs of N, P and K provided by the treatments. 
 
 For the MF treatment, the soil pH decreased significantly, and it became more acidic at 0-20 and 20-40 cm depths in T4 (Table  5 ). The contents of exchangeable K increased significantly for 0-20 and 20-40 cm depths. The organic carbon content decreased by 20% and total nitrogen content by 25% in 0-20 cm depth (Table  5 ). For the SS-1 treatment, the measured soil parameters did not show significant differences. In contrast, for the SS-2 treatment, exchangeable Mg and K contents decreased by 1% and increased by 0.6%, respectively, at the 0-20 cm depth between T0 and T4. For the PL treatments, the soil pH significantly increased until it reached a near-neutral pH. Exchangeable K contents increased significantly for the 0-20 (PL-2) and 20-40 (PL-1) cm depths between T0 and T4. For the PL-2 treatment, exchangeable Ca content also grew at 0-20 cm depth. For the AD-1 treatment, organic carbon and total N contents decreased significantly at 0-20 cm depth between T0 and T4. In contrast, for the AD-2 treatment, only the total N content significantly decreased in the soil at the 0-20 cm level. For the AD-2 treatment, exchangeable K contents increased significant at 0-20 and 20-40 cm depths between T0 and T4.  
 The results of the statistical analyses showed that the variables treatment, campaign and their interaction (treatment*campaign) had significant effects in explaining the variability of lettuce (p < 0.0001), carrot (p = 0.001) and tomato (p < 0.0001) yields (Figure  2 ). For lettuce crops, the effects of treatment and campaign variables (p < 0.0001) and their interaction (p = 0.003) were significant on yields. The effects of PL-2 * campaign 2 and PL-2 * campaign 3 interactions were significantly higher than other treatment*campaign interactions on lettuce yield. Yields in SS-1 * campaign 1 and SS-2 * campaign 1 were the lowest, with significant differences compared to lettuce yields in PL-1 * campaign 2 and PL-1 * campaign 3, and PL-2 * campaign 2 and PL-2 * campaign 3. Lettuce yields in treatments * campaign 1 and treatments * campaign 4 did not show significant differences between them. Thus, treatment PL-2 had a significantly higher effect on lettuce yields than the other treatments. The SS (1 and 2) treatments showed the lowest lettuce yields with significant differences compared to the PL (1 and 2) treatments. Lettuce yields in the MF treatment were similar to those in the AD-1, AD-2, SS-1, SS-2 and PL-1 treatments. The yields observed in campaigns 2 and 3 are significantly different from those observed in campaigns 1 and 4. There was no significant difference between the yields in campaigns 2 and 3, nor between those in campaigns 1 and 4. For carrot crops, it was the treatment variable that showed a significant effect (p < 0.0001) in explaining yield variability, rather than the campaign variable (p = 0.052) and their interaction (p = 0.694). Carrot yields in PL-2 * campaign 2, PL-2 * campaign 3 and Pl-2 * campaign 4 were the highest with significant differences compared to carrot yields in SS-1 campaign 1 and SS-2 * campaign 2. No other significant differences were observed between treatment * campaign interactions. Thus, the PL-2 treatment had a significantly higher effect on carrot yields than the other treatments. The effects of treatments MF, AD-1, AD-2, SS-1, SS-2 and PL-1 were similar on carrot yields. Carrot yields between a campaign were not significantly different. For tomato crops, it was the campaign variable that showed a significant effect (p < 0.0001) in explaining yield variability, rather than the treatment variable (p = 0.071) and their interaction (p = 0.97). Tomato yields in MF * campaign 2, PL-1 * campaign 2, PL-2 * campaign 2, SS-1 * campaign 2 and SS-2 * campaign 2 are significantly higher than tomato yields in treatments * campaigns 1, 3, and 4. Thus, there are no significant differences between treatment effects on tomato yield. The tomato yields in campaign 2 were significantly different from the other campaigns. For each campaign, the yields of each crop were not correlated with the total amounts of N, P and K supplied by the OWP and mineral supplements (results not shown. Similarly, the cumulative yields after the four campaigns were not correlated with the cumulative amounts of N, P and K applied. 
 The yields of all three crops obtained with each fertilisation treatment differed in the four campaigns (Figure  3 ). Lettuce yields increased between campaigns 1 and 2 with significant differences for treatment PL-1 (p = 0.003) and PL-2 (p = 0.048) treatments. Lettuce yield change rates (YCRs) were between 200 and 406%. No significant differences in lettuce yields were observed for all of the treatments (p > 0.05) between campaigns 2 and 3. Between campaigns 3 and 4, the lettuce YCRs decreased by -35 to -68% depending on the treatment, with significant differences for treatment AD-1, AD-2 and PL-1 treatments (p < 0.05). The yields of lettuce obtained with the PL-1 and PL-2 treatments in campaign 3 were significantly higher (p < 0.005) than those obtained in campaign 1. In contrast, no significant differences in lettuce yields were observed for all of the treatments between campaigns 1 and 4 (p > 0.05). Lettuce YCRs gradually decreased between campaigns 2, 3 and 4 under all of the treatments. Carrot yields did not vary significantly between campaigns 1, 2, 3 and 4 (p > 0.05). Carrot YCRs were low and varied with the treatment from campaign to campaign (-13 to +97%). Tomato yields increased between campaigns 1 and 2 under all of the treatments and differed significantly from the MF (p = 0.04), SS-1 (p = 0.01), AD-1 (p = 0.024) treatments, PL-1 (p = 0.0001) and PL-2 (p = 0.005). Tomato YCRs were between 147 and 258%. Between campaigns 2 and 3, tomato yields decreased under all of the treatments and YCRs differed significantly (p < 0.04) from the treatment (-76%), SS-1 (-69%) treatments, AD-1 (-72%), PL -1 (-79%) and PL-2 (-63%). Between campaigns 3 and 4, no significant differences in tomato yields were observed under all of the treatments (p > 0.05). The tomato yields in campaign 1 and campaigns 3 and 4 were statistically similar (p > 0.05).   
 After the first campaign, for lettuce, the mean total N contents decreased significantly for the MF, SS-1, SS-2, PL-1 and PL-2 treatments (Table  6 ). For the carrot crop, the total N contents decreased for the PL-1 treatment between campaigns 1 and 2 and increased for the AD treatments between campaigns 2 and 3. For tomatoes, there were no significant differences between campaigns 1 and 2.  
 
 Crop yields did not systematically increase with high doses of OWP applied. After several cycles (campaigns 2 and 3), only the lettuce yields of the PL-2 (poultry litter) treatment (10 t•ha -1 ) were higher than those of the mineral fertilisation treatment. This is because the total amount of N available in organic treatments depends on (i) the amount of mineral N initially present in the OWP that is potentially more rapidly available, and (ii) the rate of mineralisation of organic N present in the soil and that supplied by the OWP  According to  Crop yields increase linearly with nutrient rates and then reach an asymptote; excessive N applications can reduce yields  
 Lettuce and carrot yields differed depending on the type of OWP, but the tomato yield did not. Organic treatments did not produce different yields of tomatoes because the doses of nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium applied were not contrasted enough  
 Repeated applications of OWPs did not maintain high yields over the four campaigns. The yield change rates varied between campaigns depending on the treatments and the cumulative amounts of N, P and K inputs. In our study, the residual effects of the previous treatments were positive for carrot yields over the campaigns, but without significant differences, probably due to the shortening of the cycles from 5 to 15 days. This is indicative of fairly rapid carrot root maturity with repeated applications of the treatments, particularly with the PL-2 treatment applications. Summer crops can also benefit more from the residual effect of manure applications due to the increase in air and soil temperatures and in the activity of soil microorganisms  
 Tomato yields in campaign 2 were two to three times higher than in the other campaigns under all of the treatments. This result is explained by the larger quantity of mature fruits harvested in campaign 2 and could be linked to the effect of temperature on the growth and development of tomato plants  
 Organic waste products (OWPs) have contrasting properties and are used in a variety of contexts in Senegal. Farmers have little knowledge of the nutrient contents of OWPs, which hinders their judicious use. However, our results show that they can carry out different organic fertilisation treatments that will enable them to obtain yields equivalent to those obtained with an entirely mineral fertilisation. For the lettuce and carrot crops, better yields were measured with high doses of poultry litter. In contrast, tomato crop yields were identical for all of the treatments, regardless of climatic conditions and inter-annual variability. In addition, the geochemical properties of the soils were little changed by OWP inputs after several years of consecutive crop rotation. Our results also show that successive OWP inputs do not lead to major nutrient losses. With this information, farmers will be able to reduce the amount of mineral fertilisers applied through judicious supplementation with an OWP and thus increase their revenues. In order to clarify this benefit, a full economic study would be needed to convince farmers of the usefulness of an OWP.
Rice (Oryza spp.), wheat (Triticum aestivum), and maize (Zea mays) are the world's three most important food crops. Of these, rice is the most consumed by humans, eaten by more than half of the world's population  Predictions of future changes in climate (especially rainfall) and their impact on crop production are highly uncertain. However, despite this uncertainty, all models predict greater climate variability, resulting in increased rainfall extremes, greater risks, and a negative impact on agriculture  In West Africa, annual rainfall cycles are strongly determined by the position of the intertropical convergence zone. The region's climate is therefore one of the most erratic in the world  Research on conservation agriculture (CA) systems, started in the 1990s in Côte d'Ivoire in upland rice production systems  The period of transition from conventional systems to CA systems therefore plays a key role in the adoption of CA systems, and needs to be as short as possible. The duration of the transition period, and more generally the efficiency of CA systems, rely to a great extent on the amount of biomass that is produced and returned to the soil system  Although inclusion of appropriate use of fertilizer was proposed for enhancing the uptake of CA by smallholder farmers in sub-Saharan Africa  This study therefore aimed to evaluate CA cropping systems in order to minimize both economic and climatic risks under erratic climatic conditions in Bouaké, Côte d'Ivoire and to achieve a rapid transition from CT to CA systems. The detailed objectives were to: i) identify the best sowing period for upland rice yield and stability, ii) assess the impact of yearly climatic conditions on upland rice yield during transition from CT to CA, for a range of cropping systems, iii) assess upland rice yield trends during transition from CT to CA, for a range of cropping systems iv) assess the impact of fertilization on yield and the economic return during this transition period, for a range of cropping systems, and v) identify low-cost, climate-resilient systems that can be adapted to farmers' conditions. Aligning with this special issue on "Sustainable productivity enhancement of rice-based farming systems in Africa", this paper mainly focuses on the results of upland rice-based cropping systems. The focus on rice is further justified because i) rice is one of the key strategic crops in Côte d'Ivoire and is strongly supported by the government and ii) upland rice is extremely susceptible to water stress and thus a good crop model for studying resilience to climate change. 
 
 The study was conducted from 2015 to 2020 under rainfed upland conditions at the M'bé Africa Rice Center (AfricaRice) research station in the center of Côte d'Ivoire. The station is located 35 km north of Bouaké. The experimental site is located at latitude 7 • 51'10" North and longitude 5 • 06'40" West. It was reclaimed in 2015 after lying fallow for over 12 years and facing frequent wildfires. The vegetation before clearance consisted of tall (up to 4 m high) perennial grasses dominated by Pennisetum purpureum, Andropogon gayanus and Hyparrhenia rufa. Soils were classified as Rhodi-humic Arisol (FAO) or Paleustults (Soil Taxonomy) by  The climate in Bouaké corresponds to the "Equatorial savanna with dry winter" climate of the revised Köppen-Geiger climate classification  Data recorded at the AfricaRice weather station from 1994 to 2014 (Fig.  1 ) show an average annual rainfall of 1150 mm with a high interannual variability, ranging from 797 to 1911 mm year -1 . Two peaks were observed: a first between April and June (150 mm month -1 on average, ranging from 36 to 320 mm month -1 ) and a second in September (159 mm month -1 on average, ranging from 39 to 408 mm month -1 ) (Fig.  1 ). The mean rainfall in July and August was 115 and 106 mm month -1 , respectively, but monthly rainfall could be as low as 19 and 9 mm month -1 , and as high as 241 and 191 mm month -1 , respectively. 
 
 Land clearance started in 2015, with the destruction of perennial grasses through crushing and application of herbicide (glyphosate 1800 g ha -1 ) once the re-growing plants were 30 cm tall. A first cowpea crop (Vigna unguiculata) was direct sown (no soil tillage) for all the treatments in March 2015, for field homogenization. It was grown until June 2015 when its above ground biomass was incorporated into the soil through plowing for implementation of CT systems, or controlled (kniferoller) for mulching in direct sowing in CA systems. 
 Six different cropping systems were tested from June 2015 and until end of 2016 in a randomized block design, with four replicates, in large plots (8 m × 80 m each, total experimental site size: 2 ha), consisting of: 1.1. CA system with rice in rotation with maize, both associated to stylo (Stylosanthes guianensis), sown in June. 2.1. CA system with rice associated to stylo, rice +stylo cultivated every year, sown in June. 3.0. CA system with rice associated to stylo, rice cultivated every other year (with stylo in pure stand the other year), sown in March. 3.1. CA system with rice associated to stylo, rice cultivated every other year (with stylo in pure stand the other year), sown in June. 4.1. CT system with soil tillage, rice sown in June. 6.1. CA system with maize+cowpea (sown in March) in rotation with rice sown in June. In the systems' code, number before the digit characterizes the type of cropping system. Number after the digit indicates the sowing date: 0 for March, 1 for June and 2 for July. More specifically, the CA systems tested in M'bé were direct seeding mulch-based cropping systems (DMC) with cover crops, especially semiperennial legumes  After the partial destruction of the site by a wildfire in early 2017, we modified the experimental design. Systems for which at least three replicates did not burn (systems 1.1; 2.1; 3.0; 3.1 and 4.1) were resumed as they were, but with three replicates only and split into two fertilization levels. The remaining plots were used to introduce a wide range of new cropping systems, without and with fertilization. Table  1  presents the various cropping systems, fertilization levels and sowing dates tested before (2015-2016) and after the wildfire (2017-2020). Table  S1  presents the full sequences of crops and fertilization levels, for each treatment and plot, every year from 2015 to 2020, showing how the design was adjusted after the wildfire in 2017. Overall, the new design was a split-plot design with three replicates. Cropping systems were fully randomized as main plot and main plots were further split with two fertilization levels (F1, as in 2015 and 2016, and F0, without fertilizer). The sub-plot size was reduced to 17 m × 8 m (136 m 2 ). There were three replicates, except for one system (conventional system with plowing and burning of the crop residues, system 5.1) for which only two replicates were possible. Where cropping systems were based on a biannual crop rotation (Rice // Maize or Rice // Stylo) they were repeated twice in each replication in order to have each crop grown every year as also reported by  Systems 1.1; 1.2; 2.1; 3.0 and 3.1 are CA systems based on stylo, with rice in rotation with maize at two sowing dates (systems 1.1 and 1.2), rice associated with stylo every year (system 2.1) and rice grown one year out of two, in rotation with stylo, at two sowing dates (systems 3.0 and 3.1). Systems 4.1 and 5.1 are CT systems, with rice-maize rotation, without and with burning of crop residues before plowing, respectively. Systems 6.1, 7.2, 8.1 and 9.1 are CA systems with rice in rotation with maize and legumes, and sorghum (system 9.1 only). In CA system 6.1, maize sown in March was intercropped with pigeon pea (Cajanus cajan), a perennial legume, and was in rotation with rice sown in June the next year. In CA systems 7.2, 8.1 and 9.1, three annual legumes were associated with maize sown in the spring: cowpea in system 7.2, groundnut (Arachis hypogaea) in system 8.1 and soybean (Glycine max) in system 9.1. Soybean and groundnut were replaced in 2019 by Asparagus bean (Vigna Sesquipedalis) and mung bean (Vigna radiata), respectively, as the long cycle of the former led to a delay sowing in the summer. In these CA systems, after maize+annual legume sown in March, semi-perennial legumes able to withstand the dry season and produce a high biomass  1  and S1 , Fig.  S1 ). Additionally, a system with cassava (Manihot esculenta) + stylo was tested as cassava is another major food crop in Côte d'Ivoire and it is less vulnerable to drought than rice or maize (system 10.1). This system, with rice grown after two years of cassava+ stylo, was not grown thrice, so rice was cultivated only in 2019. Overall, 5 cropping systems (1.1, 2.1, 3.0, 3.1 and 4.1, under F1 fertilization) were continuously implemented from 2015 to 2020. System 5.1 was initiated after the wildfire partly on CT system (4.1) but with one replicate on a totally burnt CA plot (Table  S1 ). The other systems and all unfertilized systems were implemented from 2017, after 2 years of various CA cropping systems initiated in 2015 but largely destroyed by a wildfire early in 2017. In all of the systems, only the grains were harvested, leaving all of the straw within the field, except for the conventional system without burning (Table  1 ), where all straw were cut near ground level and removed from the field before plowing. In conventional system with burning and soil tillage, crop residues were burned before plowing. 
 Description of upland rice-based cropping systems with and without fertilization at different sowing windows (March, June and July) tested at M'bé experimental site in Bouaké, Côte d'Ivoire. Three main types of cropping systems were tested: CA based on stylo (systems 1.1-3.1), CT systems (4.1 and 5.1) and CA systems based on rice in rotation with maize intercropped with legumes (systems 6.1-9.1). Note: "+" corresponds to plant intercropping, "/" corresponds to double crop within the same year, "//" corresponds to crop rotation between years. In the systems' code, number before the digit characterizes the type of cropping system. Number after the digit indicates the sowing date: 0 for March, 1 for June and 2 for July. Bold systems (1.1, 2.1, 3.0, 3.1, and 4.1) were same as those initiated in 2015. Maize sc: short cycle maize. Cowpea sc: short cycle cowpea. F0 and F1 indicate no fertilizer and fertilizer applied, respectively. System 7.2 was abandoned in 2018 due to magnan ants and wild bees infestation. System 9.1 was not cultivated in 2018 for the same reason. 
 Land preparation consisted of: i) disc plowing followed by two harrowing for CT systems; ii) control of crop residues or cover crops for CA systems: A knife-roller was passed twice on crop residues or on stylo, dolichos bean or sunn hemp cover crops. Pigeon pea was manually cut just above the soil surface with a machete. When needed, herbicide (glyphosate 360-720 g ha -1 + 2,4-D 360 g ha -1 ) was applied to control the remaining plants. In all of these systems, the upland rice variety NERICA 4 (Oryza sativa L. × Oryza glaberrima Steud.) was sown in hills at a 0.3 m × 0.3 m spacing-5-8 grains hill -1 . A local maize variety was used for all systems, except in system 7.2 for which GRMP-18, a short cycle variety, was used. Maize was sown at 2 grains hill -1 , in rows with 0.9 m × 0.4 m spacing. For stylo-based systems (systems 1.1, 1.2, 2.1, 3.0, 3.1, and 10.1), stylo was sown 3 weeks after rice, maize or cassava (local variety used by farmers) the first year, with one stylo row between two rice rows (0.3 m spacing), or two stylo rows between two maize or cassava rows (0.3 m × 0.3 m spacing), with 7-10 grains hill -1 . The following years, after natural regrowth, stylo was sown only in spots where its density was not sufficient to insure a full soil cover. For systems 6.1, 7.2, and 9.1 based on pigeon pea (Cajanus cajan), cv CRF0025 was sown 30 days after maize or sorghum (cv Souna 3) sowing, with one row between two maize or sorghum rows (0.4 m spacing) and 2 grains hill -1 . The same sowing days and spacing were applied for dolichos bean (variety from Réunion Island) in maize (system 8.1). Cowpea (cv David, system 7.2), groundnut (local variety, system 8.1) or soybean (local variety, system 9.1) associated with maize were sown the same day as maize, with two rows of the legume between two maize rows, 2 grains hill -1 (0.3 m × 0.3 m spacing). Crop seeds were treated with Imidalm T450WS (Imidaclopride 350 g kg -1 + Thirame 100 g kg -1 ) at the rate of 2.5 g per kg of seeds. For CT systems, a pre-emergence herbicide was applied at sowing (oxadiazon, 1000 g ha -1 ). For CA systems, the only herbicide application was for land preparation before direct seeding in the soil cover. No postemergence herbicides were applied. Weeds were controlled by hand weeding starting 3 weeks after sowing, when needed. For maize and rice, two fertilization levels were applied. A treatment F0 without any fertilization, and a treatment F1 with a basal fertilizer application of 200 kg ha -1 of NPK (12-24-18), equivalent to 24 kg N ha -1 , 21 kg P ha -1 and 30 kg K ha -1 , a first top-dressing fertilizer (urea at 87 kg ha -1 , equivalent to 40 kg N ha -1 , at 30 days after sowing (DAS)) and a second top-dressing fertilizer (urea at 87 kg ha -1 , equivalent to 40 kg N ha -1 , at 60 DAS). Cassava was not fertilized. Cover crops received the crop fertilization when they were associated with rice or maize. They were not fertilized when grown in a pure stand. 
 Rainfall (P), temperature (T) and solar radiation (Rs) were recorded at the AfricaRice automatic weather station located 500 m from the experimental site. Evapotranspiration was estimated from temperature and radiation through the Hargreaves-Samani temperature method (ETP = 0.01325 × 0.408 Rs (T + 17.8))  In each plot, yield components of rice or maize (number of hills m -2 , number of tillers m -2 , number of panicles or cobs m -2 , plant height for five plants, straw weight and grain weight) were measured in a square identified by a quadrat (of 1 m 2 for rice and 4 m 2 for maize or sorghum). For rice, five panicles were selected randomly from the panicles harvested in the 1 m 2 samples where yield components were measured. The number of filled and unfilled grains was counted manually. Yield components were not measured for pulses or cassava. The entire plots (136 m 2 ) were then harvested manually. After threshing, rice, maize, or pulses grains were air dried and weighed with a Ohaus NVL20000 scale. Yields given were for air-dried grains, at approximately 12-14% moisture content. Cassava was weighed directly after harvesting (fresh weight). 
 The prices for the calculation of economic return (Table  2 ) are based on the average local market price in Bouaké in 2020 (crop prices fluctuate significantly over the year depending on the season), with 1 CFA= 0.0015 Euro at a constant currency rate. Sorghum is not used in the Bouaké region and is not sold on the market. It can be regarded as a cover crop in our systems. For crops and eatable cover crops, the seed price was regarded as the market price of the product. For cover crop seeds, not available on the local market, the price was estimated: 1 000 and 3 000 CFA kg -1 for dolichos and stylo, respectively. Cassava cutting were estimated to 200,000 CFA ha -1 . Manpower required for the various systems was estimated based on labor spent for the implementation of the experiment. Economic return calculations were based on ½ ha of rice and ½ ha of maize (+ legumes) grown every year for systems 1.1, 4.1, 6.1, and 8.1; for 1 ha of rice every year for system 2.1 and for ½ ha of rice and ½ ha of stylo for system 3.1. System 10.1, in which rice was grown only in 2019, was assessed on the average valorization over the 2017-2019 period with one harvest of cassava and one harvest of rice in 3 years. Net margins were calculated as ((the crop harvest × market price) -(herbicide + seed costs)). Here we did not consider plots receiving fertilizer application. Return on labor day was calculated as the net margin divided by the estimated manpower. Labor day equivalent was calculated as the net margin divided by 2 500 CFA day -1 . 
 Statistical tests, models and figures were done with Xlstat v. 2021.1.1 (Addinsoft, 2021). Analysis of variance (ANOVA) was conducted on the yields of the elementary plots and on all yield components. ANOVAs were followed by a comparison of means using the Ryane-Einot-Gabriel-Welsh test Q (REGW-Q) as it provides the best compromise between the need to have a powerful test and the need to limit the type 1 error, according to  First, with ANOVA, we assessed the impact of rice growing season (spring, summer or late summer) on its yield and yield components, individually for each cropping system, fertilization level and year, and then overall for the 2017-2020 period. Second, for the main growing season (summer), we analyzed the impact of the year of cultivation on rice yield, for the four systems grown from 2015 (systems 1.1, 2.1, 3.1, and 4.1). Third, for the main growing season (summer), we analyzed the impact of cropping systems on rice yield and yield components, individually for each year and fertilization level, and then over the 2017-2020 period. In order to gain in statistical analysis power (increasing the number of replications), we then performed ANOVA by grouping cropping systems with the same main characteristics (CT, CA based on stylo, CA based on maize+ perennial legume in rotation with rice). Finally, ANOVA was performed to assess the impact of fertilization on rice yield, again individually for each cropping system and for each year, then over the 2017-2020 period. 
 
 The mean average temperature did not significantly vary between years, with a mean daily average between 25.4 and 25.7 ℃ over the 2015-2020 period. However, high temperature and solar radiation during the spring season led to higher ETP, making this season unfavorable every year (Table  3 ). Rainfall and evapotranspiration from 2015 to 2020 (Fig.  S2  and Table  3 ) were highly variable. The climatic conditions characterized by these two variables during the spring season (sowing in March) were rather unfavorable to very unfavorable during the five years during which rice was sown in March (2016-2020) (Table  3 ). Favorable conditions (rather favorable to very favorable) were met during the summer season (sowing in June) in 2017, 2018, and 2019, whereas the climatic conditions were very unfavorable during the summer season in 2016 and unfavorable in 2015 and 2020. The climatic conditions in the late summer season (sowing in July-August) were rather unfavorable and very unfavorable in 2017 and 2020, respectively, whereas they were rather favorable and favorable during 2018 and 2019 late summer season, respectively. A frequency analysis based on P-ETP shows that climatic conditions were slightly better during this study period  S2 ). During this study period, they were rather to very favorable (P-ETP > 300 mm) three times (50%) during the summer season and two times (33%) during the late summer season, reflecting a clear change in climatic conditions over the past years (Table  S2 ). 
 The impact of rice growing season on rice yield is presented on Table  4 . When rice yield was compared between 1.1 and 1.2 and between 3.0 and 3.1, rice yield was significantly higher during the summer season (sown in June) than other seasons, except in the 2018 late summer when there was no large difference. The reason for no yield difference can be due to the rather favorable conditions in late summer season in 2018 (Table  3 ). Lower yields in the spring season and the late summer season can be largely explained by a higher percentage of unfilled grains (Tables  S3  and S4 ). 
 Characteristics of the climatic conditions from 2015 to 2020 at M'bé experimental site in Bouaké, Côte d'Ivoire. Rainfall (P) and evapotranspiration (ETP) indicated per season (spring, summer, and late summer) correspond to the total rainfall and ETP from one week before sowing to harvest. Dry periods correspond to periods with rainfall of less than 1 mm day -1 on average. Minimum cumulated P-ETP (P-ETP Cum. Min) corresponds to the lowest cumulated P-ETP measured during the cropping season. Ranking of the rainfall conditions: Very favorable (dark green): P > 600 mm and P-ETP > 500 mm, no period with P-ETP < -50 mm. Favorable (green): P > 600 mm and P-ETP > 500 mm with one dry period (P-ETP < -50 mm) or P > 600 mm and P-ETP < 500 mm without a dry period (P-ETP < -50 mm). Rather favorable (light green): P > 600 mm, P-ETP< 500 mm, no period with P-ETP < -50 mm. Rather unfavorable (light orange): P > 500 mm and P-ETP < 300 mm and no period with P-ETP < -50 mm. Unfavorable (orange): P-ETP < 300 mm and P-ETP Min < -50 mm or period with P-ETP < -50 mm; Very unfavorable (red): P < 500 mm P-ETP min. or period with P-ETP < -100 mm. Note: Thresholds set at 50 mm and 100 mm correspond to water available in 50 cm of soil with 10%Vol (pF2) and 20%vol (pF4) water holding capacity, respectively. 
 In the summer season, significant differences across years were observed for all the yield components and rice yield when analyzing systems 1.1, 2.1, 3.1 and 4.1 together (Table  5 ). Rice yield was the lowest in 2016, the driest year, with a very long dry period (55 days, Fig.  S2 ), leading to low number of tillers m -2 , panicle m -2 , panicle tiller -1 , weight of straw, and grain:straw ratio (Table  5 ). In 2016, with 491 mm of rain from one week before sowing to harvest, emergence was strongly delayed (Fig.  S2 ), especially under CT systems with fertilization, delaying the entire plant cycle and leading to a high number and a high percentage of unfilled grains and a low grain:straw ratio (Tables  S5  and S6 ). Yield was also low for CA systems in the dry 2016 summer season, just one year after the beginning of CA implementation. Rice plants had a low percentage of fertile tillers, a high percentage of unfilled grains, and a very low grain:straw ratio. In 2018, with favorable rainfall conditions, yield under CT was high. However, it was surprisingly low for CA systems. For CA systems with stylo, this low yield was related to a very low tillering and a low percentage of fertile tillers (Table  S5 ) For CA systems based on rice in rotation with maize associated with a semi-perennial legume, the low yield in 2018 was related to a low number of tillers hill -1 , a very low percentage of fertile tillers, and overall poor growth, with low straw and grain production and a low grain:straw ratio, especially in unfertilized systems (Table  S5 ). All systems together, no relationship was found between rainfall and climatic conditions, and yield (Fig.  2 ). However, the relationship depends on cropping system type and fertilizer treatment. Yield was positively correlated to rainfall under CT with fertilization, but not under CA systems. No relationship under CA systems is mainly due to the low yield in 2018 with high rainfall and favorable climatic conditions and the high yield in 2020, with low rainfall and rather unfavorable climatic conditions (Fig.  2 ). 
 Fig.  3  shows the trends in rice yield during the summer season (sowing in June) for the periods 2017-2020 and 2015-2020 for unfertilized (F0) and fertilized (F1) plots, respectively. Both for F0 and F1, CT systems showed the highest variations in yield across the years, with very low yield during dry conditions (2016 and 2020) and high yield during more favorable rainfall conditions (Table  6 ). They also showed a high spatial heterogeneity during wet years, with a high standard deviation (Fig.  3  and Table  S7 ). Inversely, CA systems showed some trend with two distinct periods. During the 2015-2018 period, they tended to have lower yield than CT systems, although not significantly (Table  S8 ). However, from 2019, rice yield in CA systems rapidly increased over years, whereas rice yield was stagnant in CT systems. When systems based on the same principles were grouped into three: i) CT systems based on conventional practices with soil tillage (systems 4.1 and 5.1); ii) CA systems based on stylo (CA Stylo, system 1.1 and system 2.1; system 3.1 was omitted as it allows production of a crop only one year out of two) and iii) CA systems based on rice in rotation with maize associated with pigeon pea (CA Maize + PP; systems 6.1 and 8.1), 
 Impact of growing season and fertilization on rice yield (kg ha -1 ) grown over 2017 and 2020 in selected cropping systems at M'bé experimental site in Bouaké, Côte d'Ivoire. Pair comparison for rice-based systems differing only by their sowing date: Systems 1.1 and 1.2 (Rice + Stylo //Maize + Stylo in rotation) sown in June and July respectively and Systems 3.0 and 3.1 (Rice + Stylo // Stylo //Rice + Stylo) sown in March and June, respectively.  yield was only marginally different (p < 0.1) under unfertilized conditions in two out of four years and significantly different (p < 0.05) under fertilized conditions in three out of six years. However, yield ranking was not consistent across years: in 2017 and 2018, CT systems tended to produce higher yield than CA systems and, inversely, in 2020 CA systems tended to have better yield than CT systems (Table  6 ). Interestingly, similar trends were observed for maize, with a global increase of yield under CA systems both in spring and summer seasons (Fig.  S3 , Tables  S9  and S10 ). 
 The rather unfavorable weather conditions in 2020 (only 546 mm of rain and three dry periods at the beginning of the cycle) led to significant differences in rice yield as a function of the cropping system, irrespective of the fertilizer treatments (Fig.  4 ). Rice yield was higher for all of the CA systems (1502-2454 and 2035-2762 kg ha -1 without or with fertilization, respectively) than CT systems (1260-1486 and 1339-1579 kg ha -1 without and with fertilization, respectively). In both fertilizer treatments, rice yield under CA systems based on longer period for cover crops (3.1 stylo and 6.1pigeon pea) had the highest yield. 
 When the 12 cropping systems × sowing date tested over a four-year period (2017-2020) were used for comparing for yield between two fertilizer treatments, rice yield was significantly higher (P = 0.048) on fertilized plots (F1) than unfertilized plots (F0), with a gain of 175 kg ha - 1 on average per season (1275 kg ha -1 and 1100 kg ha -1 , respectively). In all cases, F1 gave a higher yield than F0 in all systems, but due to poor statistical discrimination, related to high yield variability, especially in fertilized plots and in CT systems, less than 30% of the comparisons could be detected as significant (p < 0.1). The impact of fertilization was strongly related to the cropping systems. When effects of fertilizer on mean yields over the period 2017-2020 are considered (Table  7 ), for summer alone, the mean yield increase due to fertilization was 451 kg ha -1 year -1 (1200 kg ha -1 year -1 and 1651 kg ha -1 for F0 and F1, respectively). The highest yield increase with fertilization was observed for CT systems: 618 kg ha -1 year -1 on average for system 5.1 with burning of crop residues (p < 0.05) and 380 kg ha -1 year -1 on average for system 4.1 without burning of crop residues (p < 0.1). Except for system 8.1 (maize+groundnut/ mai-ze+dolichos // rice) which was the only CA system showing a significant difference over the 2017-2020 period (488 kg ha -1 year -1 ; p < 0.1), yield increase with fertilization was lower in CA systems than CT systems. The impact of fertilization was also strongly related to the year of cultivation: A significant (p < 0.05) increase of rice yield was only observed in the very wet 2019 year and no significant differences between fertilized and unfertilized plots were shown in the less favorable 2017, 2018, and 2020 seasons (Table  S11 ). 
 
 The cost of F1 fertilization application (125,000 CFA ha -1 ) in this study was equivalent to 500-1000 kg ha -1 of paddy rice (125-250 CFA kg -1 according to quality) (Table  2 ). Over the four years (2017-2020), for the nine cropping systems with rice sown in the most favorable season (summer), the mean rice yield increase due to fertilization was on average 451 kg ha -1 , which results in negative economic return on fertilizer application. Furthermore, for the 30 combinations "year × cropping systems" cultivated from 2017 to 2020 during the most favorable climatic season (summer), the gain related to F1 fertilization was higher than 750 kg ha -1 only four times (including three times in 2019), and was higher than 1000 kg ha -1 only for two systems (CT system 5.1 and CA system 8.1), both in 2019 (Table  S11 ). 
 Table  8  presents estimations of the economic performance of these systems in which rice was grown in the summer season over the 2017-2020 period for low-input systems, without fertilization. Mean annual labor day equivalent per hectare over four years ranged from 60 to 487 person day ha -1 year -1 . Mean return on labor day over four years ranged from 753 to 12 187 CFA person day -1 . The CT system (4.1) provided low labor day equivalent per hectare (60 person day year -1 ) and low return on labor day (1 025 CFA person day -1 ) that were relatively stable over the four years. CA systems based on stylo (1.1 and 2.1) also provided low labor day equivalent and return to labor day, but with an increasing trend over the years, in relation to increased yield. System 3.1 and system 8.1 had the lowest labor day equivalent. However, system 3.1 which annually rotates rice and stylo on 1 ha and requires the lowest manpower, provided a mean return on labor of 1 496 CFA person day -1 , while system 8.1 which requires three sowings in two years, and provided only a very limited benefit from the pulse Fig.  3 . Rice yield (kg ha -1 ) of four cropping systems, from 2015 to 2020 for no fertilizer treatment (F0, a) and fertilizer treatment (F1; b) at M'bé experimental site in Bouaké, Côte d'Ivoire. CA systems: System 1.1. (rice+stylo// maize+Stylo), System 3.1. (rice+stylo//stylo// rice+stylo) and System 6.1. (maize+pigeon pea// rice+crotalaria). CT system: System 4.1 (conventional rice //maize rotation, with removal of crop residue). Note: F1 was applied in all plots in 2015 and 2016. Unfertilized plots (F0) started in 2017 on plots which were fertilized in 2015 and 2016. Error bars represent the standard deviation. 
 Impact of cropping system type on rice yield (kg ha -1 ) as a function of cropping year and fertilization level at M'bé experimental site in Bouaké, Côte d'Ivoire. Italicized values in a row within a set indicate significant difference at p < 0.10 by the REGW-Q test. (Table  S12 ), provided a very low return on labor day (753CFA person day -1 ). System 6.1, owing to an additional income from pigeon pea (Table  S12 ) had the second highest labor day equivalent and return on labor day (2 222 CFA person day -1 on average over the 2017-2020 period, increasing to 3 574 CFA person day -1 in 2020). System 10.1 had the highest labor day equivalent owing to high cassava production (23,775 kg ha -1 ) in 2018 and rice yield in 2019 (1 762 kg ha -1 ), resulting in a very high return on labor day of 12 187 CFA person day -1 . This rice yield was higher than CT systems and other CA systems without fertilizer application in 2019, although the difference was not statistically significant (Table  6 ). 
 
 Lower yield in the spring and late summer seasons than in the summer season in this study was largely explained by a higher percentage of unfilled grains in these seasons (Tables  S3  and S4 ). This could be related to water stress at and after the flowering stage  2 ). Positive relationship between yield and rainfall under fertilized CT systems but not under unfertilized CT systems suggests that the CT systems are highly susceptible to climatic conditions, and that under favorable climatic conditions, yield might have been limited by mineral nutrition in unfertilized systems. In 2018, with favorable rainfall conditions, the low yields for CA systems with stylo were related to low tillering and low percentage of fertile tillers (Table  S6 ). This may be due to competition between rice and the stylo cover crop which was not properly controlled in 2018. It is known that heavy seed production of stylo may become a problem in the subsequent rice cropping, and proper control for stylo is needed  S6 ). The reason for poor rice growth is not known, but it may reflect poor nutrition related to slow mineralization or immobilization processes in relatively favorable soil water conditions, when soils were covered by plant residues with high C:N ratio  The fact that the yield of rice as well as maize grown under CA systems was higher in the unfavorable climatic conditions of 2020 than the very favorable conditions of 2019, when inversely the yield under CT systems decreased, suggests potential improvement of soil conditions under CA systems after a transition period needed to initiate agroecological processes and restore soil conditions  
 Our study shows that after a period of transition, during which CA systems had a lower yield than CT systems, especially when rainfall conditions were favorable, the trend was reversed with a rapid increase in CA yield from 2019. This increase in CA yield was confirmed under adverse climatic conditions in 2020, contrary to CT systems. Such trends in yield evolution during the transition to CA systems have been poorly documented at individual field studies  As this study did not aim to identify the processes at stake when shifting from CT to CA systems, here we provide potential reasons for rice yield improvement in CA systems based on the findings of previous studies.  
 Fertilizer application represents a considerable investment for smallholder farmers in West Africa. Low rice yield response to fertilizer, resulting in low economic return observed in this study does not make investing in fertilization in upland rice systems in erratic climatic conditions attractive for these smallholder farmers. Although the soils in this study cannot be considered to be non-responsive soils with very low organic matter content  
 Upland rice is not traditionally cultivated in the Bouaké region due to the high climatic risk. This experiment shows that upland rice cultivation in such conditions is possible with appropriate systems based on CA, but requires a transition period. In 2020 (an unfavorable climatic year) the highest rice yield was obtained by systems having cover crops that were grown for longer periods. They were system 6.1 (maize+pigeon pea//rice+crotalaria), with pigeon pea grown for 13 months, and system 3.1 (rice+stylo//stylo//rice+stylo) with stylo grown for 20 months before rice production. Similarly, system 10.1 (cassava+stylo //cass-va+stylo //rice+stylo) also had longer periods for cover crops and showed higher rice yield in 2019. This finding is supported by previous 
 Impact of fertilization level on mean rice yield (kg ha -1 ) over the 2017-2020 period as a function of the cropping system at M'bé experimental site in Bouaké, Côte d'Ivoire. The difference between unfertilized and fertilized systems was significant (p < 0.05) only for the CT system with burning of crop residues.  study in Laos, which found that greater biomass production during fallow period was associated with higher soil nutrient availability and yield of upland rice grown in the sub-sequent season  In such conditions, a major issue for shifting from CT to CA systems is likely to be the availability of seeds of cover crop such as stylo, and equipment enabling such CA alternative cropping systems, as reported in Cambodia  The advantage of pigeon pea over stylo is that it can be easily controlled manually, and produces pulses. Pigeon pea thus provides a better gross margin while reducing the demand for labor (Table  8 ). These make system 6.1 (maize+pigeon pea//rice+crotalaria) more profitable than CT systems and CA systems based on stylo over the 2017-2020 period. Although system 10.1, associating cassava with stylo had single cycle during this study period, it showed promising results. This system had very limited inputs (i.e. cassava cuttings and stylo seeds in the first year) and labor investment, as stylo was grown for two years together with cassava (harvested in 2018), but had higher margins due to good performance of cassava and upland rice after stylo and cassava cultivation (Table  8 ). Relatively higher upland rice yield in this system could be attributed to longer period for growing cassava and stylo, which could allow them to accumulate high biomass, as pointed out by  
 Results from this six-year experiment conducted in large plots under erratic climatic conditions in central Côte d'Ivoire showed that it is possible to grow upland rice in CA cropping systems which perform better than CT systems in constrained climatic years, such as 2020 and after a transition period from CT to CA systems. Although we recognize that our results are insufficient to draw definitive conclusions regarding the climate resilience of the systems tested here and the increasing yield trend observed under the CA systems in the last two years consequently needs to be confirmed in coming years, some conclusions can be drawn from this experiment. The summer season (sowing in June) provided higher rice yield for all cropping systems than other sowing periods tested. There was large year-to-year yield variation in rice yield even in the best season (summer) season. Thus, to minimize the economic risk, cropping systems should require minimum inputs, including fertilizer application and labor, limiting the risk to a potential low return on the labor and the inputs invested. Intercropping a semi-perrenial legume as stylo with a long cycle root crop (e.g. cassava as in system 10.1) or a semi-perrenial legume as pigeon pea with a cereal crop (e.g. maize as in system 6.1), in the spring season, makes it possible for the cover crop to grow for long periods and can enhance productivity of upland rice in the subsequent season. For increasing the profitability of the systems, desirable cover crops should be low labor-demanding, and generate incomes from their products (e.g. pigeon pea). However, the permanent presence of an organic mulch on the soil surface and the incorporation of cover crops in the rotations in CA systems require a significant reorganization of the production process at both the farm level and higher levels, and adaptation to local socio-economic conditions. These could be crucial issues for development and large-scale adoption of CA cropping systems.  
 
 The authors declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this paper.
The area under sugarcane crop has reached 26 million hectares worldwide and Brazil is the largest sugarcane producer, with approximately 10 million hectares  High sugarcane phytomass yield is reliant on high N rates supplied for the crop  Cropping cover crops has been long adopted within several agroecosystems worldwide as a strategy to minimize undesired consequences of agricultural practices for the environment  The sugarcane is responsive to a legume cultivated in rotation with the crop and stalk yield gains varied from 15 to 25% in Australia  Estimates pointed out that N fixed by legumes is able to supply N up to the fourth ratoon crop, allowing reductions in N fertilizer demanded in each ratoon, while the yields were maintained in Australia  The hypothesis tested was that cropping legume plant within the sugarcane renewal period (rotation system) increases soil N availability, which leads to reduction or even the replacement of the nitrogen rates managed for the sugarcane at planting. Moreover, due to the additional benefits associated with legume's residues retention on the soil surface (i.e., higher nutrient cycling and water content), the positive effects from rotation system still longer and are able to enhance ratoons' stalk yields as well as the crop's responses to the applied nitrogen rates. Thus, the aim of this study was to evaluate the implications of rotation system with sunn hemp combined with N fertilization on sugarcane tillering, N content on leaves, stalk yield and industrial quality of stalks at cane plant cycle and two ratoon cycles. 
 
 The field trials were set up at Iracema Mill located in Iracemápolis, São Paulo, Brazil (22°34' S, 47°31' W, 608 m high). The climate type is Cwa, characterized as warm summer and dry winter, according to Köppen classification. The means of annual temperature and precipitation are 20.4 °C and 1,540 mm, respectively (Fig.  1 ). The experiments were conducted across three following years (i.e., cane plant, first and second ratoons). The soil is a Rhodic Kandiudox  1 ). 
 The field trials were set up in area at the fifth ratoon cycle, which was undergone to renewal period (i.e., replanting the crop). After herbicide application, soil tillage was performed by harrowing and subsoiling until 0.35 m. Two experiments were set up simultaneously in two adjacent areas: within an area sunn hemp was sowed (rotation system), while another area was left in fallow (fallow system). The sunn hemp was mechanically sown in January 2013 and a disk was used to surface-incorporate the cover crop three months later at flowering stage. The sunn hemp phytomass production was 8.5 Mg ha -1 and the macronutrients contents left on the field within the phythomass were equivalent to 170 kg ha -1 N, 31 kg ha -1 P, 124 kg ha -1 K, 57 kg ha -1 Ca, 21 kg ha -1 Mg, and 15 kg ha -1 S. The dry mass yielded by the same cover crop under Brazilian tropical and subtropical conditions varied from approximately 10  For sugarcane planting, furrows were opened until 0.30 m and fertilizers were placed at the bottom of the furrow. Nitrogen rates were applied according to the treatments, and potassium was not applied due to the high content of this nutrient on soil (Table  1 ). The sugarcane variety planted was RB96 6928 (early maturation cycle) and 15 buds were used per meter. Furrows were mechanically covered with a thin soil layer (0.05 m). The experimental design was randomized blocks with five treatments and four replications for each system. The treatments included the application of four N amounts: 130, 260, 390, and 520 kg ha -1 of N. These N amounts were split along the crop cycles, according to Table  2 . An additional treatment was established for each system without N application (check plot). In cane plant, the fertilizers were placed at the bottom of the furrow (incorporated). At the ratoon cycles, the fertilizers were applied between 30 to 60 days after harvesting as ammonium nitrate in bands beside the sugarcane line. Phosphorus was applied (120 kg ha -1 P 2 O 5 ). The intermediate N rate (i.e., 260, split in 60 kg ha -1 at planting and 100 kg ha -1 N at each ratoon cycle) is the recommended rate for the crop within the State of São Paulo (Raij van and  
 To evaluate the effect of sunn hemp rotation on soil N dynamics, the inorganic N content (i.e., NH 4 + , NO 3 -+ NO 2 -) was determined during the sugarcane plant cycle. For this determination, soil samples were taken every two months at 0-0.2, 0.2-0.4 and 0.4-0.6 m and exclusively in check-plots (to avoid interference with N-fertilizer application). In each plot, four subsamples were taken per depth at randomized points from ∼ 0.25 m from the planting row. The samples were immediately packed in ice-containing boxes and sent to the laboratory; the samples were stored frozen (-18 °C) until analysis. After defrosting, extraction of inorganic N was performed in the 5 g subsamples (moist samples) by adding 25 ml of 2 mol L -1 KCl and shaking for 1 h  
 The relative chlorophyll index (SPAD index) was estimated by a nondestructive method, through a Soil Plant Analysis Development SPAD-502, a portable chlorophyll sensor (Minolta Corporation, Ramsey, Japan). The readings were performed on the leaf +1 (top visible dewlap) during the maximum plant development phase (i.e., October). Prior to the readings, the equipment was calibrated with a readout test, according to manufacturer recommendations. Care was taken to sample healthy plants representative of the plot. Measurements were performed on 30 leaves per plot, and the mean was used to represent the treatments.   ---------------------------------------------------------   -kg ha - 1 ------------------------------------ 0 0 0 0 
 After SPAD index determination, the sampled leaves were immediately taken and central part of the leaf (∼0.2 m) collected without the central vein. The leaves were air-dried (50 °C) in a forced-air oven until reaching constant dry-matter mass. Thereafter, the samples were ground in a Wiley-type mill and total N content determined according to Kjeldahl. Ammonium (NH 4 + ) and nitrate (NO 3 -) contents in leaves were determined in the dry and ground samples (1 g), extracted with 1 mol L - 1 KCl and shaken in an orbital shaker for 5 min. After adding 0.2 g of calcined MgO, the samples were subjected to steam distillation in a Kjeldahl microdistiller, collected in 2% H 3 BO 3 solution and titrated with standardized 0.0025 mol L -1 H 2 SO 4 for quantification the NH 4 + content. Nitrate content was quantified by adding 0.2 g of Devarda´s alloy to previously used tube, subjected to steam distillation. Nitrate content was obtained by titration with standardized 2.5 mmol L -1 H 2 SO 4. 
 Prior to the sugarcane harvesting, plants within 2 m at the central row of each plot were collected and separated into tops, dry leaves and stalks. Samples were weighed for wet weight determination and thereafter crushed in a forage crusher. Phytomass was homogenized and subsamples were taken, weighed and dried at 60 °C in a forced-air oven until phythomas reaches constant dry-matter mass, then the subsamples were reweighed for dry mass determination. Samples were prepared for total N determination according to proceedings mentioned for total nitrogen determination in leaf +1. Total N content in each plant component was used to estimate N removed by each plant component through the product dry matter mass by N content.  June 28-30, 2014 (cane plant),  July 20-22, 2015 (first ratoon)  and August 01-03, 2016 (second ratoon) . Stalk yield (Mg ha -1 ) was determined by harvesting mechanically the four central rows of each plot and stalk was dropped into a truck equipped with a loading cell (used exclusively for experiments). 
 
 Nitrogen requirement (NR) was calculated through the following equation: NR (kg N Mg stalks -1 ) = N rate / Stalk yield NR was calculated based on the N applied from fertilizer Nitrogen requirement was not calculated for the control treatments. Lower values of the N requirement indicate a potential increase in the yield while maintaining the N rates. Even through sugarcane has a high C:N ratio [i.e., around 130,  
 Ten stalks from 2 m in the central row of each plot were sampled during all harvests. The stalks were analyzed for the percentage of sucrose, fiber, and purity, following the procedures described in  
 We considered two field trials, one with crop system and another under fallow system. Inside each system, a complete block experimental design was used. The effect of sunn hemp rotation was evaluated by analysis of a group of the trial (with and without sunn hemp rotation). Individual analysis of variance was performed for each system, and the combined data were analyzed following the assumptions of  The N rates within each system were compared by adjusting the regression models through PROC Mixed procedure (SAS). For repeated measurements (soil sampling), a mixed effects model of statistical package R was used to adjust for a possible linkage between the measurements. Analysis was performed using the R software (R Core Team, 2018). 
 
 + and NO 3 -+ NO 2 -contents Soil ammonium content was higher in the area with sunn hemp rotation in May/2013, September/2013 and January/2014 (Fig.  2A ). The contents of nitrate and nitrite were higher in May/2013 and November/2013 in the area with sunn hemp rotation, while in January/ 2014 and in March /2014, higher nitrate and nitrite content was observed under no rotation system (Fig.  2B ). The sunn hemp rotation system increased inorganic N content (i.e., NH 4 + , NO 3 -+ NO 2 -) in May/2013 and November/2013, on the other hand, fallow system resulted in higher inorganic N content in March/2014 (Fig.  2C ). 
 Overall, the sunn hemp rotation system improved sugarcane sprouting during cane plant cycle. Thus, higher quantity of tillers was accounted under rotation system at 150, 180 and 210 DAP (Fig.  3 ). Within the cane plant cycle, tillering number was 37.8 and 28.6 tiller m - 1 under rotation and fallow systems, respectively at 150 DAP. Thus, rotation system adoption increased tillers number in 32% (Fig.  3 ). After the maximum tillers number is recorded at 150 DAP, the quantity of tillers was remarkable reduced around 240 DAP. From this period on, no intensive changes were observed on the tillers number and, at the end of cane plant cycle (i.e., 450 DAP), the number of plant was similar under both systems, as following: 13.5 and 12.3 tiller m -1 were accounted within rotation and fallow systems, respectively (Fig.  3 ). Across each ratoon cycle, no difference was observed regarding the tiller number as affected by both systems (i.e., rotation or fallow). 
 Despite the increased N rates have influenced overall SPAD index, this same parameter, as well as the leaf N content, were not affected by the N rates applied within each system (Table  3 ). Total N content varied from 19.2 to 19.3 and from 18.5 to 19.7 g kg -1 , respectively under rotation and fallow system. Overall, higher leaf NH 4 + content was observed in the area with crop rotation. However, under both systems, the NH 4 + content in the leaf as affected by the increased N rates applied was best adjusted to a quadratic model (Table  3 ). Conversely, the N rates did not influence the leaf N-NO 3 -content in the area under crop rotation system. Meanwhile, in fallow system, N-NO 3 -contents in leaf as affected by N rates applied were adjusted to a quadratic model, maximum N-NO 3 -content was 31.23 mg kg -1 under 66 kg ha -1 N. Overall, the content of NH 4 + in the leaf were 2.1 and 1.7 fold higher than the N-NO 3 -content under rotation and fallow systems, respectively (Table  3 ). 
 Over the cane plant cycle, N rates applied and rotation system did not influence the amount of N removed by most plant components, except by the dry leaves (Table  4 ). The amount of N removed by this plant component as affected by the N rates applied was adjusted in a quadratic model. Regarding to the N distribution across plants components, the highest amount of N was removed in stalks (48%), while the dry leaves and tops removed lower amounts, around 31 and 21%, respectively (Table  4 ). The N accumulated in stalks ranged from 55 to 62 and from 53 to 70 kg ha -1 under fallow and rotation systems, respectively. The quantity of N removed by plants was not determined for the ratoons cycles due to financial resource shortage. 
 The rotation system adoption did not affect stalk yield at cane plant cycle (Fig.  4 ). In contrast, stalk yield was higher under rotation system in both ratoons cycles (Fig.  4 ). The means of stalk yield were 13 and 7 Mg ha -1 (i.e., improved 14 and 9 % compared to yield recorded in fallow) higher in the first and second ratoon cycles, respectively. An interactive effect between rotation system adoption and applied N rates occurred during cane plant, first ratoon and the average stalk yield obtained from both ratoon cycles (Figs.  5, 1S ). The adoption of rotation system increased the sugarcane yield by 15 Mg ha -1 only in the plots that N was not applied at planting. Moreover, in cane plant, regardless of N rates applied (i.e., ranging from 30 to 120 kg ha -1 ), stalk yield recorded in both systems was similar (Fig.  5A ). In contrast, when N rates from 0 to 200 kg ha -1 were applied combined with rotation system, the average of stalk yield for both ratoons was higher than average measured at fallow under same N rates. In rotation system, the average of stalk yield recorded in both ratoons varied from 11 to 16 Mg ha -1 under 0 and 200 kg ha -1 of N (Fig.  5B ). In cane plant cycle, stalk yield as affected by increasing N rate applied was adjusted by a quadratic model (y = -0.0029x 2 + 0.4098x + 114.49; R² = 0.98; P < 0.01) under fallow system and 60 kg ha -1 N leaded to the highest yield, while no stalk yield response was observed under rotation system. Regarding to the average stalk yield from both    ratoon cycles, a linear model (y = 0.0398x + 85.269; R² = 0.82, P < 0.05) was adjusted to stalk yield as affected by increasing N rates under rotation system, while in fallow system the stalk yield as affected by increasing N rates was adjusted to a quadratic model (y = -0.0004x 2 + 0.1018x + 75.443; R² = 0.73; P < 0.10), (graphs not shown). The N required (kg N Mg stalks -1 ) by the crop under both systems (i.e., rotation and fallow) according to the N rate applied is presented in Fig.  6 . The N requirement was similar between both systems when 50 and 100 kg ha -1 N were applied; however, N requirement under 150 and 200 kg ha -1 N was lower in the rotation system. Overall, across the ratoon cycles, the rotation system adoption decreased the N requirement under most N rates applied and, in average, the reduction was 0.2 kg lower for each Mg of stalks yielded compared to the N amount removed on stalk harvest in fallow system. 
 The parameters associated to industrial quality of stalks at cane plant cycle were no affected (P < 0.1) by the systems adopted in this study (Table  5 ), whereas in the second ratoon cycle, crop rotation increased sucrose content (from 14.0 to 14.3%) and sugar yield (from 13.1 to 14.6 Mg ha -1 ). Despite the N rates applied reduces sucrose and fiber contents, purity is increased under N application. A slight decrease in the sucrose content as affected by the N rates applied may have been compensated by the stalk yield gain favored by the N rates supplied (Fig.  5 ), which resulted in the positive effect of the N rates on sugar yield (Table  5 ). There was interaction between rotation system and N rates regarding to the sugar yield and this parameter was higher at the rotation system associated to 150 and 200 kg ha -1 N compared to the Fig.  5 . Interaction between cover crop x N rates on sugarcane stalk yield at cane plant and ratoon (average of first and second ratoon cycles). In cane plant, response to N rates was observed only in the fallow system. In ratoon, linear and quadratic response to N were observed in the rotation and fallow systems, respectively. Means followed by different letters, within each N rate, indicate differences between management system accordingly Tukey HSD test (α = 0.10). sugar yielded under the same N rates applied within the fallow system. 
 
 Planting sunn hemp during sugarcane renewal period (i.e., rotation system) increased soil-ammonium, nitrate and nitrite contents within the earlier sugarcane growth stages (Fig.  2 ). Higher N availability under rotation system leaded to both higher tillering number (Fig.  3 ) and leaf ammonium content in cane plant cycle (Table  3 ). Moreover, in this same cycle, the stalk yielded without N application at planting under rotation system was 13% (i.e., 15.2 Mg ha -1 ) higher than yield measured in fallow system. Thus, the improvement on stalk yield within the first condition may be related to the increase on soil N and another nutrients availability due to sunn hemp cultivation. However, the rotation system did not increase the N amount removed in the plant components (Table  4 ), which may be due to natural N losses as the crop starts the ripening and senescence processes  Large variation in ammonium, nitrate and nitrite contents was observed in the soil during the cane plant cycle (Fig.  2 ). These changes generally are related to natural variations in microbial activity caused Fig.  6 . Interaction between cover crop x N rates on N requirement by sugarcane ratoon (average of first and second ratoon). Rotation system reduced N requirement by 0.2 kg N Mg stalks -1 on the average of N rates. Means followed by different letters, within each N rate, indicate differences between management system accordingly Tukey HSD test (α = 0.10). by fluctuation in soil temperature and moisture over the plant growth period  2 A ). On the other hand, nitrate and nitrite contents were characterized by three phases during the cane plant cycle: increased linearly at the beginning of the cycle, which is associated with fast nitrification  3 ) and stalk yield (Table  5 ). From December/2013 to March/2014 high precipitation events were recorded (Fig.  1 ), within the same period the nitrite and nitrate contents were reduced, this was especially remarkable under rotation system (Fig.  2 B ), whereas ammonium content presented small variation within that period (Fig.  2 A ). Higher soil-water content may impose to the soil a lower soil aeration condition (i.e., hypoxia), under such condition most of pore spaces are occupied by water reducing the aeration and the nitrification process  
 Overall, sugarcane tillering is favored by N fertilization  3 ), indicating that N from soil organic matter (SOM) may have sustained the sugarcane tillering due to the high inorganic N stocks observed within the experimental area (Fig.  2 ). On the other hand, the area under rotation system had higher tillering in the early stages of crop development, which may be related to an increase in N availability (Fig.  2 ) and the soil moisture maintenance favored by sunn hemp's residue. After maximum plant tillering period, the number of tillers was stabilized which is explained by plants' competition for water, nutrients and light due to canopy closure across the ratoon cycle  Despite an increase in N availability under the rotation system, which resulted in higher tillering and stalk yield in the check plot, there was no difference in the N removed in each plant components. The only exception was an increase in the N uptaken by sugarcane under rotation system plus 90 kg ha -1 N applied, this combination did lead to higher N removed in the dry leaves (Table  4 ). Overall, N fertilization increases the N uptaken by plants and, thereby the amount of the element removed by the plant components  The rotation system did not lead to yield gains in the cane plant cycle but stalk yields increased by 13 and 7 Mg ha -1 in the first and second ratoon cycles, respectively (Fig.  4 ). The absence of stalk yield response as affected by the rotation system in the cane plant can be associated with a well-established sugarcane field through tillage operations, which reduced soil compaction and supplying enough N through SOM mineralization in both systems. Overall, it seems that stalk yield is little sensitive to legume rotation during the cane plant cycle  Interactions between the rotation system and N rates were observed in all crop cycles (Fig.  5 ). Overall, the N rates improved stalk yield during cane plant; However, without N application and under crop rotation adoption (check plot), stalk yield increased in 15 Mg ha -1 (P < 0.1) (Fig.  5A ). This highlights the benefits of the rotation system for N biological fixation and, thereafter, supplying most of the N required by plants during cane plant cycle. Further, the rotation system increased stalk yield at the first ratoon (Fig.  1S ) and the average of stalk yield from both ratoons under all N rates applied (Fig.  5 ), thus the positive implications of crop rotation on stalk yield are longer and were able to enhance the ratoons' yields. The continuous N releasing from legume residues mineralization improved sugarcane growth and yield during ratoon cycle  5B ). Without N application, stalk yield was 15 Mg ha -1 higher under rotation system than stalk yield measured in the fallow system, while when the increasing N rates were applied in both systems, stalk yield did not differ (Fig.  5A ). Thus, the rotation system with sunn hemp potentially replace the N fertilization at planting. Historically, sugarcane has been considered a low-responsive crop to N fertilization at planting  5 ), presumably sunn hemp cultivation within the renewal period would provide 60 kg ha -1 N as a legume-N credit for the cane planting. In this sense, legume rotation during sugarcane renewal period had allowed reduction in N fertilizer usage, while higher yields were maintained  An important finding of this study was the different patterns in which stalk yield responded to the N rate applied according to the system during ratoon (Fig.  5 ). In the fallow system, stalk yield (i.e., average of both ratoons) response was adjusted to a quadratic model, while stalk yield response as affected by increased N rates was adjusted to a linear model under rotation system. Overall, N rates up to 150 kg ha -1 improved yield until, while under the highest N rate (i.e., 200 kg N ha -1 ) stalk yield was dropped in 4 Mg regarding to the 150 kg of N ha -1 . This stalk-yield pattern as affected by increasing N rates is usual in Brazil  Regarding to the sugarcane industrial quality, excessive N uptake by plant can reduce stalk quality  5 ). Moreover, the highest N rates applied combined with rotation system, the sugar yield is higher than N rates applied under fallow system. This highlights the synergies between the rotation system and N-fertilization to overcome potential unfavorable implications of N-fertilization on sucrose content and yield. Better sugar contents in stalk under rotation system within the first ratoon cycle may be associated to higher nutrient content cycled into the soil due to sunn hump's phytomass left on the field, especially potassium. Beyond other nutrients for plants, that nutrient source left 124 kg ha -1 of K on the field. This element is an important sugar carrier in plants  Usually, N rates ranging from 40 to 60 kg ha -1 are applied on the Brazilian sugarcane fields at planting. Moreover, in ratoon cycles (i.e., most of areas under sugarcane in Brazil), the expected stalk yield is adopted as a guiding to N applications (Raij van and  4 ), while the N amount requested for each Mg of stalk harvested was reduced in 0.2 kg [i.e., reduced 12.5% (Fig.  6 )]. The sugarcane soils are highly prone to erosion processes, especially when subsoiling and soil tillage operations (i.e., soil management before planting) are done during the rainy season  
 Sustainable practices adoption during biofuels production are crucial for fossil fuels be replaced by biofuels to enhance the well-known environmental benefits of biofuel usage. In this sense, the rotation system adoption (i.e., cropping a legume plant within the sugarcane renewal period) is a promising alternative to increase soil N availability for the crop. The amount of N added to the soil through this management is around 60 kg ha -1 , which is able to fulfill the N required by crop at planting in Brazilian sugarcane fields. Moreover, the benefits from the rotation system still remain for the ratoons and crop yield responses to N fertilization are improved. Our findings point out stalk yield increasing of 20 Mg ha -1 over two ratoon cycles under rotation system, whereas the N amount required for each Mg of stalk harvested is reduced 12.5%. Thus, rotation system can reduces sugarcane growths' spending with N fertilization and potentially minimize adverse consequences for the environment associated with over N rates applications, which is intrinsically related to better NUE. Moreover, the stakeholders may adopt the rotation system also as a strategy to minimize soil physical quality degradation. In either situation, rotation system adoption potentially increases the sustainability of bioenergy from sugarcane thought reducing the sugarcane growths' reliance on synthetic N fertilizers. 
 Rafael Otto: Supervision, Funding acquisition, Visualization. Greice Leal Pereira: Investigation, Data curation, Visualization. Sarah
Increasing plant functional diversity is expected to enhance ecological functions and is needed to maintain ecosystem services  Cover plants are one of the means to increase the functional biodiversity of fields. Used by farmers for a long time as green manure or fodder, they have had renewed interest since the 1990s because of their roles in the control of erosion, the control of weeds and pests, the input of N by atmospheric fixation, the improvement of nutrient cycling, and the limitation of water and nutrient losses  1  Agroecosystem services expected in banana agrosystems, a choice of related plant functions, associated plant coarse characteristics, and effect traits used to assess the potential of cover crops to achieve these functions. 
 Plant functions Plant characteristics Plant traits observed Unit R. similis control -regulating service Dry aboveground biomass kg/m 2 N content on a mass basis % Speed of mineralization of mulch C/N of the aboveground biomass the best suited cover plant species according to their role in the agrosystem. A promising method for selecting the best suited cover plants involves functional traits as simplified indicators of plant functions. Functional traits have been extensively used in comparative ecology studies to describe the relationships between plant diversity, community structure, and ecosystem properties. They are defined as the morphological, physiological, and phenological features, measurable at the plant level, that impact plant performances  In the tropical climate of the French West Indies, annual and perennial weeds grow fast all year and may strongly compete with banana plants for soil resources. In such conditions, pathogen pressure is also very high. Plant-parasitic nematodes and particularly Pratylenchidae Radopholus similis are one of the main pests of banana. They lesion the root system, impair plant nutrition, and cause toppling and uprooting of banana plants. To decrease such parasitic nematode populations and their subsequent damage, growers have to drive a one year sanitation fallow after every five or six production cycles of banana. This fallowing period is also aimed at restoring soil fertility. In recent years, cover plants have consistently been used during the fallowing period (as sequential cropping) or in association with banana (as intercropping). Considering the constraints of banana agrosystems, suited cover plants are expected to control weeds and plant-parasitic nematodes (regulation service, senso  
 
 In the banana agrosystems of the French West Indies, cover plants are generally grown to control plant-parasitic nematodes (particularly R. similis), to decrease or suppress weed pressure, to improve soil fertility (particularly N), and to avoid competition with banana for resources. These ecological services were analyzed in terms of related plant functions and plant effect traits (Table  1 ). The ability of cover plants to control R. similis was assessed through their host status toward that nematode species, i.e. their ability to increase R. similis populations in their roots. Host status  pintoi Fabaceae AP X X X Brachiaria decumbens Poaceae BD X X X Brachiaria ruziziensis Poaceae BR X X X Cajanus cajan var. Guadeloupe Fabaceae CC X X X Centrosema pascuorum Fabaceae CP X X X Crotalaria juncea Fabaceae CJ X X Crotalaroa pallida Fabaceae CPa X X X Crotalaria retusa Fabaceae CR X X X Crotalaria spectabilis Fabaceae CS X X X Crotalaria zanzibarica Fabaceae CZ X X X Cynodon dactylon Poaceae CD X X X Dolichos lablab Fabaceae DL X X Eleusine coracana Poaceae EC X X X Gliricidia sepium Fabaceae GS X X Impatiens waleriana Balsaminaceae IW X X Neonotonia wightii Fabaceae NW X X X Vigna unguiculata var. CNC Fabaceae NC X X X Vigna unguiculata var. David Fabaceae ND X X Vigna unguiculata var. U462 Fabaceae NU X X Paspalum notatum Poaceae PN X X X Pueraria phaseolides Fabaceae PP X X X Ricinus communis Euphorbiaceae RC X X X Sesamum indicum Pedaliaceae SI X X Sesbania cericea Fabaceae SC X X Sorghum bicolor var. BF80 Poaceae SB X X Sorghum bicolor var. papetier Poaceae SP X X Stylosanthes guianensis Fabaceae SG X X X Tagetes patula Asteraceae TP X X X was determined through the potential multiplication rate of this nematode in cover plant roots. Three ways to control weeds were considered because of their relevance in tropical areas and banana agrosystems. First, the fast growth of a cover plant causes its rapid spread on the soil surface and prevents early emergence of weeds  The main way to improve soil N fertility in a banana agrosystem is to maximize the nutrient return from the fallow. Indeed, the mineralization of cover plant residues after their destruction at the end of the fallow period can provide high levels of N available for the early growth of the banana (facilitation of growth through N return). The potential of cover plants to return N available was assumed to be related to the amount of N contained in the living tissues and to the net mineralization rate of the mulch produced after fallow destruction. The N amount contained in the living organs was expressed on a soil surface basis and assessed from the dry aboveground biomass per soil unit and its N content on a mass basis. The net mineralization rate of the mulch was assessed from the C/N ratio of living organs  The ability of plants to compete aboveground for light is commonly assessed by their height  Finally, because cover plants can be used as fallow or intercropped under the banana cover, their light requirement was assessed to identify their best positioning. The shade and light tolerance of cover plants were evaluated from the authors' expert knowledge based on field observations. 
 
 A field experiment was conducted at the CIRAD experimental station of Neufchâteau in Guadeloupe (French West Indies) on 28 cover plants (see Table  2 ). Developed on recent volcanic deposits, the soil is classified as an andosol. The annual rainfall was 3450 mm (mean over 5 years). The mean annual temperature was 24 • C. Each cover plant was manually sown in a 200 m 2 plot along 30cm spaced rows. After germination, some seedlings were removed to obtain the classical plant density of 9 plants/m 2 . Plots were under rain-fed regime. No fertilizer was applied. The previous crop was a highly fertilized banana crop that provided high amounts of nutrients for the following crops. Traits were assessed at the flowering stage of cover plants. 
 Plant functional types of cover plants. Each functional type is defined by a function code and an index that represents the plant potential to achieve the function: 1 means that the function is fully achieved, 0.5 means that the function is moderately achieved, and 0 means that the function is not achieved. Functional types resulted from a combination of plant trait values. 
 Function The duration of the plant life cycle was scored according to four classes: short annual (<3 months), annual, pluri-annual, and perennial. The growth habit was qualified as twining, creeping, semi-erected, or erected. Vegetative multiplying organs (rhizome or stolons) and the ability of plants to grow from cuttings were determined from field observations. Plant height was evaluated from measurements of 10 individuals within a population. Three height classes were determined: 0-0.5 m, 0.5-1.0 m, and higher than 1 m (see Section 2.3). On each plot, three 1 m-deep and 1 m-wide trenches were dug perpendicularly to the plantation rows. Root impacts on the vertical soil profile were counted on a 10 cm × 10 cm mesh grid. The mean root impact density in the 0-30 cm soil layer (RID) was calculated as the mean number of root impacts/dm 2 observed in this layer on the three profiles. Plants' aboveground organs were collected on three 1 m 2 squares randomly chosen in the experimental plot. The total dry aboveground biomass was calculated on a soil area basis. Dry matter content of leaves and stems were calculated from the fresh and dry leaf weights. The dry matter content of the aboveground biomass (DMC) was calculated after drying at 70 • C. N content on a mass basis and C/N ratio of the aboveground biomass were determined. The amount of N contained in the aboveground biomass (QN) was calculated as the product of the plant dry aboveground biomass and the N content on a mass basis. 
 The absolute growth rate was determined for 18 cover plants grown in pots in a growth chamber (see Table  2 ). For each cover plant, ten pots of one individual were used. The growth chamber was maintained at 24 • C with a 12/12 h light/dark cycle. Plants were sown in 2 L-pots filled with 70% peat and 30% pozzolana. Pots were fertilized after sowing with 10 g per pot of a slow-release fertilizer (11% N, 11% P 2 O 5 , 18% K 2 O, 2% MgO). Twice a week, the pots were weighed and watered so as to maintain soil water content at field capacity. After watering, the pots were replaced randomly in the growth chamber. For each cover plant, five of the ten replicates were harvested soon after germination, when the first leaves were fully developed. The remaining replicates were harvested after one month. At each date, the leaves were separated and the total leaf area was measured with an image analysis software (WinRhizo Pro, Regent Intruments). The absolute growth rate of the plant leaf area (AGR) was calculated as the difference between the leaf area after one month of growth and the initial leaf area divided by the length of the growth period. 
 The ability of the 28 cover plants to multiply R. similis was assessed in controlled conditions (see Table  2 ). Fifteen replicates of each cover plant were grown in pots filled with sterilized soil and placed in a greenhouse. Pots were watered and adjusted to field capacity daily. A complete slow-release fertilizer was applied once a week (6% N, 20% P 2 O 5 , 31% K 2 O, 1% MgO). Mean temperature in the greenhouse was 24 • C. Two months after sowing, each pot was inoculated with 200 R. similis laboratory grown as monoxenic cultures  
 Shade and light tolerance were assessed from the authors' expert knowledge based on field observations in several sites, in shaded and full sun situations. We assumed that cover plants were light tolerant if, when exposed to full sun, no visible damage could be observed on leaves (yellowing or burning symptoms) and if their growth was not reduced or suppressed. We assumed that cover plants were shade tolerant if they were able to maintain their growth under the shade conditions of the banana canopy. Eighteen cover plants among the 28 studied were investigated in experiment 2. For the ten remaining cover plants, AGR was qualitatively determined from our field observations by comparing their early growth with that of the plants in experiment 2. 
 For each trait, a range of values that enabled the plant to achieve the related functions was determined on the basis of the functioning of the banana agrosystems. Threshold values were determined as explained in the subsequent part of this subsection. For each function, three functional types were identified as a combination of values of traits related to this function. The rating was as follows: 1 if the function was achieved, 0.5 if the function was moderately achieved, and 0 if the function was not achieved (Table  3 ). Cover plants were assigned to functional types according to their combination of trait values. R. similis control. A cover plant unable to multiply R. similis, i.e. exhibiting a multiplication rate lower than 1, was assumed to efficiently control that nematode. Inversely, we assumed that cover plants showing a multiplication rate higher than 5 were unable to control nematodes. 1 and 5 were consequently chosen as threshold values for multiplication rates to assess host status toward R. similis. Rapid spread on the soil surface. Considering the high pressure exerted by weeds on banana plants in the soil and the climatic conditions of the French West Indies, we assumed that, to provide complete weed control, the soil had to be fully covered in the 4 weeks (28 days) following sowing. We also assumed that if the soil was not fully covered after 6 weeks (42 days), the cover plant was ineffective to control weeds. Considering a plant density of 9 plants/m 2 , the soil was fully covered if an individual plant covered 0.11 m 2 . As a consequence, the plant had to grow 40 and 26 cm 2 /plant/day for the soil to be fully covered after respectively 28 and 42 days. Persistent soil surface colonization. Perennial (or pluri-annual) cover plants that can spread indefinitely because of their vegetative propagation modes were considered as fully achieving the function. In banana agrosystems, we hypothesized that vegetative propagation of cover plants was sufficient to counterbalance the mechanical damage caused by pests and workers' trampling but that sexual propagation was not, and that vegetative propagation was even stimulated by such damage (emission of stolons and plant growth from cuttings). As a consequence, perennial (or pluriannual) cover plants without the ability to vegetatively propagate themselves were considered as moderately achieving the function. Cover plants with none of these traits values were considered as not achieving the function. Physical barrier. Weeds can be controlled by the mulch layer resulting from plant cover destruction at the end of the fallowing period. The layer has to be thick until the banana is able to relay the mulch effect by the shade its canopy provides and the soil cover resulting from crop residues. We assumed that this critical period for weed control lasted from banana plantation to flowering of the first cycle (about 6 months). Weed control is efficient if the initial mulch thickness is more than 7.5 cm  Avoidance of aboveground competition with banana. Cover plants higher than 1 m were considered strong competitors of banana particularly during the early stage of growth. Twining cover plants were considered moderate competitors because they can rather easily be controlled by periodical cutting around the banana mats. Other cover plants smaller than 1 m were not considered as competitors of banana. Avoidance of belowground competition with banana. We considered that a cover plant was able to strongly compete with banana for soil resources when its RID in the 0-30 cm soil layer was higher than 10 root impacts/dm 2 . This threshold value was determined considering that (i) competition occurred when the zones where roots exert a strong depletion of water and nutrients overlapped, (ii) the mean RID of the banana in the 0-30 cm soil layer is around 1.5/dm 2  Facilitation of growth through N return. C/N ratio higher than 24 favors N uptake by microbes and thus decreases the amount of mineral N available for the banana  
 The combination of all functional types of a cover plant was defined as its "functional profile". A cover plant's functional profile was represented by a barplot in which bars are the level of achievement of each function. This served to describe the overall potential of the cover plant to achieve the functions expected from a banana agrosystem. We identified four usages of these plants in banana cropping systems of the French West Indies: fallow destroyed to provide mulch, fallow followed by banana -cover plant intercropping, banana -cover plant intercropping, and use as fallow and intercropping as well (multipurpose cover). These usages and the functions required for each of them were determined from the identification of the production constraints specific to these systems, according to an expert-based approach to the design of innovative cropping system  The distances between the plant functional profiles and the distances between these profiles and the functional profiles required for each usage were analyzed with R software (R Core Team, 2013). A hierarchical cluster analysis using the complete linkage method and Euclidian distances was conducted to analyze distances between plants' functional profiles  
 
 The potential to control R. similis was assessed from the host status. Host status of the cover plants ranged from 0 to 49 (Fig.  1 ). Numerous cover plants, particularly species known for their pest repellant properties like Tagetes patula, Ricinus communis, or Crotalaria spp. had a host status of 0, indicating that they did not multiply The potential to spread rapidly on the soil surface was assessed from AGR. Within the cover plants studied we observed a continuum of AGR values from 9 to 82 cm 2 /plant/day (Fig.  2 ). Three functional types were defined within this range. Functional type RSC 1 was composed of grasses (B. ruzziziensis, Brachiaria decumbens, and Eleusine coracana), two legumes, Neonotonia wightii and V. unguiculata, and T. patula. These cover plants were expected to be the most efficient to control weeds by rapid spread on the soil surface. In contrast, cover plants of functional type RSC 0 , like some of the Crotalaria spp., A. pintoi, and S. guianensis, were the slowest growing cover plants. The potential to have persistent soil surface colonization was assessed from the duration of the plant's life cycle and its ability to propagate by vegetative multiplying. As expected, none of the  annual cover plants had vegetative propagation (Fig.  3 ). Inversely, the majority of the pluri-annuals and perennials were able to develop vegetatively. These plants belonged to functional type PSC 1 , expected to control weeds in the long term. Functional type PSC 1 was composed of well-known cover plants like Brachiaria spp., A. pintoi, D. lablab, and N. wightii. Functional type PSC 0.5 was mainly composed of shrubby plants like Gliricidia sepium, Crotalaria zanzibarica, Cajanus cajan, and R. communis. They provided lasting cover but did not have the capability to colonize the soil extensively. The potential to provide an effective physical barrier to weed germination and emergence was assessed from aboveground dry biomass and DMC. Within the cover plants studied, few had a biomass high enough to provide this barrier (higher than 0.75 kg/m 2 , see Section 2) (Fig.  4 ). The cover plants that had DMC higher than 25%, which ensured a slow degradation of the mulch they produced after their destruction, had a biomass high enough to provide this physical barrier (>1 kg/m 2 , see Section 2). Among these plants were grasses (B. decumbens, Brachiaria ruziziensis, and Cynodon dactylon) and shrubby plants (S. cericea, G. sepium, C. zanzibarica, and C. cajan). They belonged to functional type PHB 1 . Most of the plants belonged to functional type PHB 0 and are not expected to provide an effective physical barrier against weed germination and emergence. The potential to avoid competition aboveground with banana was assessed from plant height and growth habit. Numerous cover plants, among them Crotalaria spp. and shrubby plants, belonged to functional type AGC 0 and were expected to strongly compete with banana for light (Fig.  5 ). D. lablab, N. wightii and Pueraria phaseolides, three widely used cover plants, were twining and thus able to climb onto the banana. They belonged to functional type AGC 0.5 . The potential to avoid competition with banana for soil resources was assessed from RID and aboveground dry biomass. The highest values of RID were for grasses (up to 27/dm 2 ): B. decumbens, B. ruziziensis, and Paspalum notatum (Fig.  6 ). These grasses, C. dactylon, two Crotalaria spp. (Crotalaria spectabilis and Crotalaria juncea) and S. cericea constituted functional type BGC 0 and are expected to compete strongly with banana for soil resources. However, most of the cover plants had RID lower than 10/dm 2 and an aboveground dry biomass lower than 1 kg/m 2 and were not expected to compete with banana (functional type BGC 0 ). The dotted lines indicate their threshold values for the function to be achieved. Functional types are indicated in italics by the function code (PHB) and an index that represents the plant potential to achieve the function: 1 means that the function is fully achieved, 0.5 means that the function is moderately achieved, and 0 means that the function is not achieved. Letters are species codes; see Table  1  for their full names. The potential to return a high amount of N available for the banana was assessed from QN and C/N. For most of the cover plants, C/N was lower than the threshold value (24) or just above (Fig.  7 ). However, the two species of Brachiaria had a very high C/N. QN varied widely, from 0.0016 to 0.025 kg/m 2 . Numerous cover plants belonged to functional type NRT 1 and were expected to return a high amount of N available for the banana. Most of them were index that represents the plant potential to achieve the function: 1 means that the function is fully achieved, 0.5 means that the function is moderately achieved, and 0 means that the function is not achieved. Letters are species codes; see Table  1  for their full names. index that represents the plant potential to achieve the function: 1 means that the function is fully achieved, 0.5 means that the function is moderately achieved, and 0 means that the function is not achieved. Letters are species codes; see Table  1  for their full names.     3  for their full names). The height of each bar indicates the level of achievement of the function (0, 0.5, 1) (see axis at the top right corner). Species codes are indicated at the left of the barplots (see Table  1  for their full names). Asterisks indicate functional type of rapid spread on soil surface determined on the basis of AGR assessed from expert knowledge. 
 None of the 28 cover plants belonged only to functional types with indices 0 (meaning that none of the functions were achieved). Conversely, none of the cover plants belonged only to functional types with indices 1 (meaning that all the functions were achieved) (Fig.  8 ). Most of the cover plants studied were interesting for some functions but not for others. Cover plants that control nematodes were not necessarily the best ones to control weeds (e.g. Crotalaria retusa, Crotalaria pallida, T. patula), cover plants that control weeds by soil surface covering were often competitors of banana (e.g. Brachiaria spp., shrubby plants). Distance analysis showed that few cover plants had the same functional profiles. Only Sesamum indicum and E. coracana, C. juncea and C. spectabilis, and the cultivars of V. unguiculata had the same functional profiles (Fig.  9 ). Four clusters with distance within groups lower than 2.0 were identified. While all grasses except E. coracana belonged to the same cluster, Crotalaria spp. belonged to two clusters, indicating some functional variability within this genus. All shrubby plants (G. sepium, C. cajan, C. zanzibarica, R. communis and S. cericea) belonged to the same cluster. The functional profiles required for the four main usages of cover plants in a banana cropping system are reported in Fig.  10 . The analysis of distances between plants' functional profiles and profiles required for each usage showed that plant the former rarely corresponded to the latter required for usages in a banana cropping system (Table  4 ). Only the functional profile of N. wightii corresponded to the profile required for fallow B. None of the plants' functional profiles corresponded to the functional profile required Fig.  9 . Dendogram representing distances between plant functional profiles. It was obtained by hierarchical cluster analysis of cover plants' functional profiles, using complete linkage method. Letters are species codes; see Table  1  for their full names. The dotted line cuts the dendogram into four clusters, within which distances are lower than 2.0. Fig.  10 . Functional profiles required for the types of usages of cover plants identified in a banana cropping system. These functional profiles were defined as a combination of level of achievement of each function (right axis). Fallow A refers to fallow destroyed to provide mulch. Fallow B refers to fallow followed by a banana -cover plant intercropping. Intercropping refers to banana -cover plant intercropping. Multipurpose cover refers to use as fallow and intercropping as well. Function codes are indicated at the bottom of the barplots (see Table  3  for their full names). The height of each bar indicates the level of achievement expected for each function (0, 0.5, 1). Dashed lines indicate that the function was not required for this usage. for fallow A; profile of B. decumbens was the closest, followed by the profiles of C. cajan, C. zanzibarica, and P. phaseolides. B. decumbens achieved all the functions required except facilitation of growth through N return, which it achieved only moderately. The functional profiles of N. wightii and Impatiens waleriana were the closest to the profile required for intercropping, followed by the profiles of D. lablab and P. phaseolides. N. wightii achieved all the functions required but was moderately competitive with banana because of its twining growth habit. I. waleriana achieved the function of rapid spread on the soil surface only moderately. The functional profile of N. wightii was also the closest to the profile required for 
 Distance matrix between the plant functional profiles and the functional profiles required for the four usages of cover plants in banana cropping systems. The lower the distance, the closer the plant functional profile from the required profile for the usage. Distances were calculated on a Euclidian distance basis. Fallow A refers to fallow destroyed to provide mulch. Fallow B refers to fallow followed by a banana -cover plant intercropping. Intercropping refers to banana -cover plant intercropping. Multipurpose cover refers to use as fallow and intercropping as well. See Table  1   multipurpose cover, followed by P. phaseolides. Among the 28 cover plants studied, some had a functional profile that did not correspond to any of the profiles required for these usages but were close to all (e.g. P. phaseolides: distances smaller than 0.71 from all usages). Inversely, other plants like S. cericea or S. bicolor var. BF80 had a functional profile far from the ones of any usage (higher than 1.5). 
 4.1. A simple functional characterization of cover plants describes their potential to achieve the functions expected in banana agrosystems A combination of plant traits that are easy to assess experimentally was used to characterize a collection of 28 cover plants according to their potential to achieve nine functions expected in the banana agrosystems of the French West Indies. Functional profiles were defined to synthesize the overall potential of plants to achieve these functions. They were constructed by the combination of the level of achievement of each function and serve to select plants for effective ecological services. Such a trait-based approach allows characterizing a large diversity of species. More mechanistic descriptions of plant functioning are generally highly time consuming and focus generally on a few species. A similar trait-based approach was developed by  Four groups of cover plants were identified on the basis of the distances between their functional profiles. The diversity of the plant families studied was low. Most of the cover plants studied belonged to the Fabaceae and Poaceae families. As a consequence, divergences and similarities between this functional classification and the taxonomic classification could not be established. However, we found that cultivars of the same species and species of the same genus belonged to the same group (except one Crotalaria spp.), suggesting that functional divergence within species or genus is low. Besides, the groups identified were consistent with trends in an overall morphological description of plants (respectively, mostly grasses, shrubby plants, erected but not shrubby plants of high size, more diverse plants semi-erected, creeping, and twining). 
 Plants' functional profiles, such as the ones presented in this article, could help in selecting the cover plants best suited for a specific usage in a cropping system. So far, there have been few methods for designing multi-species cropping systems  
 The trait-based characterization presented in this article was conducted in monocultures under a defined plant population density to select plants best suited for cover plant usages in the banana cropping systems. However, the design of innovative multi-species cropping systems also requires determining the spatial arrangement of the suited species and their eventual mixture, which optimize the services expected. This gives rise to three challenges. The first challenge is to determine species complementarity, which mainly depends on the nature of plant interactions for resources (competition vs. complementarity), itself dependent on plant spatial arrangement. In a first approximation, plants could be considered compatible if they occupy different aboveground niches and avoid competition for light, assessed from plant size and growth habit. For example, tall erected (e.g. Crotalaria spp.) and medium-sized semi-erected (e.g. B. decumbens) plants were shown to be compatible, as were erected (e.g. I. waleriana) and creeping (e.g. A. pintoi) plants (authors' personal observations). However, a more detailed analysis of plant-plant interactions should be conducted. The analysis of effect and response traits (senso  The second challenge is to predict the effects of plant density and interactions between cover plants on the value plant traits used to assess their potential to provide the main ecological services expected. Indeed, plant trait values may vary with neighbors' traits and population density, mainly because of the decrease in resource availability due to resource sharing. As a consequence, the effects of different spatial arrangements on the traits of an individual plant can be predicted by determining the effects of traits of the neighboring plants on resource availability and the response of traits of the target plants to this resource availability. Such predictions can be done explicitly by simulating resource availability  The third challenge is to determine the effects of the spatial arrangement on the functions resulting from the community. Indeed, different spatial arrangements may lead to different levels of achievement of the functions at the community scale. For example, different spatial arrangements of plants attractive and non-attractive of pests may result in different dynamics of populations. Plant spatial arrangement is used as a pest management strategy  
 A combination of plant traits easy to assess experimentally was used to characterize cover plants by a functional profile that described their potential to achieve several functions expected in the banana agrosystems. When compared to the functional profiles required for different usages of cover plants in the banana cropping systems, plant functional profiles serve to select the best suited species for effective ecological services. Because it is based on traits easy to assess experimentally, such characterization by functional profiles enables one to characterize a large number of species in a standardized way and thus to select plants among a wide diversity. The functional profiles of cover plants presented in this article were constructed under the soil and climate conditions of the French West Indies and according to the specific production constraints of banana cropping systems in this region. They are likely to be transferable to regions with similar environmental conditions and production constraints. Otherwise, because of environmentdriven trait variability, trait values should be re-evaluated, or traits related to the new constraints should be included in the functional characterization. Compared to classical approaches of cropping system design based on the experimental testing of spatial and temporal plant combinations, trait-based approaches save time by focusing on a shortlist of species. As a consequence, such a traitbased approach of cover plants' functionality could be an efficient tool to help design innovative cropping systems including cover plants. However, functional profiles constructed on effect traits alone are insufficient to design complex systems mixing several cover plants and a cash crop. A more comprehensive description of the plant-plant interactions is needed to propose mixtures of cover plants and effective plant spatial arrangements. This represents new challenges in adapting trait-based approaches to agrosystems. Although at an early stage of adaptation to agronomy, trait-based approaches appear as a powerful tool to orient the diversity of an agrosystem toward the ecological functions and services expected.
The reintroduction of biodiversity in agrosystems has been encouraged for more than a decade to enhance ecological functions and reduce chemical inputs recognized for their negative impacts on the environment  Banana plantations of the French West Indies (FWI 14 • 39 48.07 N, 60 • 59 57.54 W) are characterized by a high level of weed pressure due to favorable growth conditions all year round under wet tropical climate. Weeds strongly compete with the banana for soil resources and impair banana growth and production. To maintain yields, large quantities of herbicides are used in export banana plantations (5.8 kg ha -1 year -1 of herbicide active product in  Cover species are expected to control weeds with one of three main processes: competition for resources, development of a physical barrier to germination and emergence, and allelopathy  Plant functional traits may be used to describe these strategies. Functional traits are morphological, physiological and phenological features of an individual organism that determines its effect on or response to the environment  In previous studies on cover species used in banana cropping systems of the French West Indies, we discussed how a trait-based approach can be used to assess the ecosystem services delivered  
 The 17 cover plants studied, code used throughout the text and figures, taxonomical groups and trait-based groups constructed according to the cluster analysis (see Fig.  2 ). 
 Full classification differ from a taxonomic monocot/dicot classification? To answer these questions, we observed the early growth of a range of cover species under controlled conditions. 
 
 Seventeen cover species were grown in 2 L pots in a growth chamber (Table  2 ). Species were chosen because of their potential for use in banana cropping systems in the French West Indies (seed availability, adaptation to local environmental conditions and known benefits in other systems worldwide). Ten pots were used for each species. Each pot was filled with 1250 g of a 70% peat + 30% pozzolana sterilized substrate at field capacity (65% water content). Five seeds per pot were sown. A seed heat treatment was required for Ricinus communis and Neonotonia wightii (Table  2 ). When plantlet cotyledons emerged, only one plantlet per pot was preserved. After sowing, each pot was fertilized with 5 g of CaCO 3 and 10 g of a slow-release fertilizer (11% N, 11% P 2 O 5 , 18% K 2 O, 2% MgO). The pots were weighed and watered twice weekly to maintain the soil water content at field capacity. A 100 mL iron chelate solution was added three times weekly, between two waterings, to prevent iron chlorosis. The growth chamber temperature was maintained at 24 • C during the day and 22 • C at night, with a 12/12 light/dark cycle. The light intensity was maintained at 512 mol photons m -2 s -1 of photosynthetic active radiation. Pots were randomly rearranged after each watering to avoid spatial heterogeneity in the growth conditions. 
 Growth analyses have shown that leaf area is related to a few traits widely studied in ecology. The plant leaf area at time t (LA t , in m 2 , Table  1 ) is expressed as the product of the plant aboveground biomass at time t (BM a,t , in g) and the aboveground leaf area ratio (LAR a , in m 2 g -1 ), which represent the investment of biomass in plant leaf area and is the product of the specific leaf area (SLA, in m 2 g -1 ) and the aboveground leaf mass fraction (LMF a , in g g -1 ): LA t = BM a,t × LAR a (1) LAR a = SLA × LMF a (2) BM a,t can be calculated from the plant aboveground growth rate, expressed by the aboveground relative growth rate (RGR a , in g g -1 day -1 ) between t 1 and t 2  RGR a = 1 BM a × dBM a dt (3) The aboveground biomass accumulated between emergence (BM a,0 , the plant biomass at emergence) and time t can thus be expressed as: BM a,t = BM a,0 × exp (t × RGR a) (4) BM a,0 has been shown to be a function (f) of seed mass (SM) (e.g.  BM a,0 = f (SM) (5) Combining Eqs. (  1 ), (  3 ) and (  4 ) leads to the following expression of LA t : LA t = SLA × LMF a × f (SM) × exp(t × RGR a ) (6) According to Eq. (  6 ), SLA, LMF a , SM and RGR a were the four traits used to describe the leaf area development strategies. 
 Seed mass (SM) was determined after seed oven-drying at 70 • C until mass stabilization. For each cover species, five replicates were harvested soon after germination, when the first leaf (not cotyledon) was fully developed, and pooled. Leaves and stems were separated. For dicots, petioles were considered as leaves. For monocots, only the laminas, not the leaf sheaths, were considered as leaves  RGR a = In BM a,1 -In BM a,0 (t 1 -t 0 ) (7) 
 All analyses were performed with R software (R Core Team, 2013). SM, BM a,0 and LA 0 were not normally distributed, according to the Shapiro-Wilk test (P = 2.60 10 -5 , P = 4.05 10 -5 and P = 2.59 10 -5 for SM, BM a,0 and LA 0 , respectively), but instead were log-normally distributed. Accordingly, these two variables were log 10 -transformed before analysis. Standardized major axis (SMA) slopes with 95% confidence intervals were fitted to bivariate trait relationships. SMA was preferred over standard regressions because we did not have any reason for considering one variable as the independent and the other as the dependent  
 
 Log-transformed BM a,0 , log-transformed LA 0 and logtransformed SM were highly positively correlated (r 2 ≥ 0.76, P < 0.001 for all relationships, Table  3 ). RGR a correlated negatively with log-transformed BM a,0 , LA 0 and SM (r 2 between 0.60 and 0.86, P < 0.001 for all relationships, Table  3 ), suggesting a marked trade-off between RGR a and these three variables. LMF a was correlated positively with BM a,0 , LA 0 and SM (r 2 between 0.31 and 0.41, Table  3 ) and negatively with RGR a (r 2 = 0.64, P < 0.001, Table  3 ). Finally LAR a was correlated positively with log-transformed BM a,0 , SLA ps and LMF a (r 2 = 0.22, 0.63 and 0.60, respectively, and P = 0.056, P < 0.001, P < 0.001 respectively, Table  3 ) and negatively with RGR a (r 2 = 0.35, P = 0.012, Table  3 ). Surprisingly, SLA sp was correlated with no other variables (Table  3 ). 
 The first two principal component axes explained 87.1% of the total variance in the four traits observed (Fig.  1 ). The first axis alone explained 62.7% of this variance and was positively correlated with RGR a and negatively with LMR a and log-transformed SM (which respectively explained 35.8%, 31.6% and 30.0% of variance on this axis) (Fig.  1a ), according to the negative relationship between these two traits. The second axis explained 24.4% of the total variance in the four traits and was positively correlated with SLA sp , which explained 91.3% of variance on this axis (Fig.  1a ). The cluster analysis identified four groups of cover plants (Fig.  2 ), which did not overlap on the PCA axis 1-axis 2 representation (Fig.  1a ). Mean scores of the groups on the PCA-axes were significantly different (P < 0.001 on both axes), indicating that they were distinct groups (Fig.  3 ). Analyze of the effect of trait-based groups on PCA-axis 1 and 2 scores showed that the functional classification explained a very large part of PCA-axis 1 and 2 score variability among species (r 2 = 0.829 and 0.853 for axis 1 and 2, respectively). Group 2 (G2) had the highest score on the PCA-axis 1, while group 3 (G3) had the lowest (Fig.  3a ). Group 4 (G4) had the highest score on PCA-axis 2 while the other groups did not differ between them (Fig.  3b ). A closer analysis of trait differences between groups showed that they significantly differed for SM, SLA ps , LMF a and RGR a (Table  4 ). G1 was characterized by a high SLA sp , G2 by a high SM and a low RGR a , G3 by a high RGR a and low LMF a and LAR a , while G4 had no outstanding trait values compared to the other groups (Table  4 ). This analysis also showed that no single group had only high trait values and that no group had only low trait values, in agreement with the trait covariations identified in the bivariate analysis. 
 Comparisons between Fig.  1a  and b  showed that trait-based groups did not match the taxonomic classification (monocots belonged to G1, G2 and G4). Monocots had a significantly higher RGR a (222.3 mg g -1 d -1 ) and lower LMF a (0.52 g g -1 ) and SM (3.1 g) than dicots (139.0 mg g -1 d -1 , 0.71 g g -1 and 47.0 g, respectively). Accordingly, their representation on PCA axis 1-axis 2 representation showed that monocots significantly differed from dicots on PCA-axis 1 (P < 0.001) but not on PCA-axis 2 (P = 0.547) (Fig.  1b ). However, comparison of models of the effect of taxonomic groups and of the effect of trait-based groups on the PCA-axis 1 and 2 scores showed that the taxonomic classification explained a lower portion of the PCA-axis 1 and 2 score variability between species (r 2 = 0.602 and r 2 = 0.025 for PCA-axis 1 and 2 scores, respectively) Fig.  1 . Principal component analysis performed on the four plant traits related to the leaf area development (see Table  1  for abbreviation list) and the 17 cover plant species (see Table  2 ). Arrows represent the principal component loadings and ellipses represent (a) the trait-based groups (G1, G2, G3 and G4) identified by the cluster analysis run on the first two PCA-axes scores (see Fig.  2 ), and (b) monocot (M) and dicot (D) taxonomic groups. than the functional classification (r 2 = 0.829 and 0.853 for axis 1 and 2, respectively). 
 LA 1 did not differ significantly between trait-based groups (Fig.  4 ). However, the median LA 1 value of G1 and G2 (1293 cm 2 and 1606 cm 2 , respectively) was higher than the median LA 1 value   1 ). The upper right section of the matrix presents the slopes and associated 95% confidence intervals for a given relationship (variables in column as x-axis and variables in row as y-axis), based on a standardized major axis regression analysis (where n = 17 for all models). The lower left section of the matrix presents model r 2 and P-values for each bivariate model, with significant relationships (P ≤ 0.05) highlighted in bold. Inspired from  2  for species codes). The y-axis represents the height of the tree, in that case (ward method) the within-cluster variance, which is a measure of the closeness of individual data points. The dotted line divided the dendogram into four groups, within which variance was lower than 4. These trait-based groups were identified as G1, G2, G3 and G4.   of G3 and G4 (912 cm 2 and 836 cm 2 , respectively), suggesting the groups G1 and G2 had better efficiency in leaf area development. 
 
 Strong positive and negative relationships were observed between seed mass, biomass at emergence, relative growth rate, leaf area ratio and its components, revealing a syndrome of traits. Most of these relationships were extensively studied. As we observed, a strong positive correlation is frequently reported between seed mass and biomass at emergence, as a result of the large amount of nutrient reserves in seeds that enable the development of large cotyledons (e.g.  However, positive correlations between relative growth rate and leaf area ratio and its components have been extensively reported  We studied a small number of families, each represented by a very different species number. Such relationships may thus be biased by the effect of phylogeny, as traits of close related species are expected to be more similar than traits of distant species  
 Plant leaf area development strategies were defined as the ways plants developed their leaf area as described by four traits. We assumed that enhanced insight into these strategies would help understand how cover species develop their leaf area and, by extension, how they interact with weeds. According to the trait syndrome described above, four groups of cover species with different leaf area development strategies were identified in the range of species we studied. A first strategy was to develop high biomass and leaf area at emergence. Species of group G2 had this strategy. Species of this group had large seeds and, according to the trait syndrome we underlined, a low RGR a . Despite their slow growth, these species can cover a large surface of soil as soon as they emerge. Among them were shrubby species (Cajanus cajan and Ricinus communis), whose seeds are reported to be larger than those of herbaceous species  A second strategy consisted of allocating a large part of biomass to the leaf area development. Species of group G1 had this strategy. They belong to different taxonomic groups (Poaceaes, Fabaceae and Asteraceae) and have different growth forms (erected: Crotalaria zanzibarica, Crotalaria pallida and Tagetes patula; twining: Neonotonia wightii and Pueraria phaseolides; semi-erected creeping: Bracharia decumbens and Bracharia ruzziziensis). Almost all of them (except Tagetes patula) are recognized as vigorous and are frequently used under the tropics as cover crops  A third strategy consisted of rapid growth in biomass and low investment in leaf biomass. Species having this strategy belonged to group G3 and were only creeping monocots (Cynodon dactylon and Paspalum notatum). They had a very high RGR a , but small seeds, and low LMF a and LAR a . These species grew rapidly but began their growth with a very small biomass and leaf area because of their small seeds. They possibly also invested little biomass in leaf area, because of their creeping nature, which requires a strong investment in support structures to allow their horizontal spread. The last was a non-specialized strategy, compared to the three others. Species of group G4 had this strategy. They had low biomass at leaf emergence, did not allocate substantial biomass to the leaf area development and had a moderate growth rate compared to the species of other groups. We found in this group species as diverse as erected Poacae (Eleusine coracana), erected Fabaceae (Stylosanthes guyanensis and Crotalaria spectabilis) and twining Fabaceae (Centrosema pascuorum). 4.3. Performances of these strategies in terms of leaf area developed after 1 month of growth Relationships between plant leaf area development strategies and performances in terms of the leaf area developed after 1 month could facilitate the choice of the best cover species to develop a large leaf area and control weeds by light competition. No significant differences were observed between the four strategies we identified. Consequently, the four groups of cover species we identified were not functional groups, i.e. species having similar effects on the processes  Although not significant, the differences in leaf area development performance after 1 month noted between groups showed that species allocating a large part of biomass to leaf area development (G1) and species developing large biomass and leaf area at emergence (G2) have the best leaf area development after 1 month. Species under the two other strategies, rapid growth in biomass and low biomass investment in leaves (G3) and non-specialized strategy (G4) did not perform well regarding leaf area development after 1 month. This suggests: (i) that despite their rapid growth, species from G3 struggled to overcome the delay in leaf area acquired at emergence, (ii) that no specialization in any leaf area development component was not efficient in the short term. 
 The importance of considering functional diversity rather than taxonomic diversity to understand the functioning of communities, their response to the environment and impact on the ecosystem is now recognized (e.g.  
 Strong positive and negative covariations were observed between the four traits related to the development of leaf area we studied, revealing a syndrome of traits and suggested trade-offs. This syndrome of traits enabled to identify four leaf area development strategies of tropical cover species. Marked trends were observed, although no significant differences in leaf area development after 1 month were observed between these strategies. Species allocating a large part of biomass to leaf area development or species developing considerable biomass and leaf area at emergence tended to perform better regarding leaf area development after 1 month than species with rapid biomass growth but low biomass investment in leaves or species having a non-specialized strategy. Longer term studies should be conducted to confirm the observed trends. Trait values also varied between monocots and dicots. However, the functional classification better explained the variability in trait values between species than the taxonomic classification. These results encourage the use of a trait-based classification to describe plant functioning, to understand plant roles in plant-plant interactions and guide the choice of the best cover species to introduce into cropping systems.
The functional diversity of communities is one of the main determinants of ecosystem properties (see  The design of sustainable cropping systems based on cover plants requires a thorough understanding of trade-offs and synergies among services delivered by these systems. Tools and methods to assess bundles of services in multispecies plant communities barely exist, however. This is the consequence of (1) gaps in knowledge on biotic interactions occurring in such communities, (2) the large range of species that can be used, and (3) the range of possible arrangements of these species in space and time  Trait-based approaches, originally developed in the field of comparative functional ecology, have a strong potential to address these issues. These approaches are based on the identification of functional traits, the morpho-physio-phenological features of an individual that relate to its functioning and impact its fitness via effects on growth, reproduction and survival  The aim of this article is therefore to discuss how a trait-based approach can be used to assess the services delivered by cover plant communities in cover plant-based cropping systems. Cover plant-based cropping systems are very diverse and depend on a variety of biophysical constraints. We chose to focus on the case study of semiperennial cropping systems based on cover plants, exemplified by the banana cropping systems, because they present features of annual and perennial systems. These systems are described in the first section (Figure  1 ) to identify the main services targeted. The second section, based on a literature survey, identifies potential effect traits that could be used to assess the main properties of cover plants in these systems. Finally, in a third section, issues related to the scaling-up from plant traits to the services delivered by plant communities in agrosystems are discussed and avenues to solve these issues are proposed. 
 Cover plants are used in a large range of systems from the simple mixing in space or time of two species to complex agroforestry systems. Their use is particularly promoted, as dead (mulch) or living cover, in conservation agriculture no-till systems  Although cover plants can be harvested and used as fodder or food, in most systems, their main role is to contribute to the sustainability of the production of a cash crop. Services delivered by cover plants are mainly regulating and supporting services: soil structure conservation (soil retention, creation of porosity), improvement of the nutrient cycling, storage of moisture (soil moisture, aquifer recharge), pest reduction (pathogens, parasites and weeds), and carbon sequestration  
 System (Figure  1 ) The banana cultivation is composed of cycles of production lasting from 9 to 11 months in wet tropical conditions, at the end of which plants are cut to harvest the bunches  As cropping systems mixing banana and cover plants present features of annual systems (the fallow period and the first cycle of production of the banana) and perennial systems (the following production cycles), they are considered as semiperennial systems. As a consequence, their study enables us to consider both features of annual and perennial systems in which cover plants can be used. 
 Plant-parasitic nematodes, and particularly the Pratylenchidae Radopholus similis, are one of the main pests of banana. They produce lesions to the root system, impairing plant nutrition and causing toppling of the plant and uprooting  2 ). Weeds grow fast all year round in tropical climate and may strongly compete with banana for soil resources. Well-chosen cover plants are expected to control weeds during the fallow period and the production cycles, to provide favorable growth conditions for the banana as long as these cover plants do not impair banana growth (see below). Cover plants are expected to control weeds with one of three main processes: competition for resources, development of a physical barrier to germination and emergence, and allelopathy  2 ). Cover plants are sown on bare soil after soil tillage or on plant mulch after the previous cover destruction or decline, on a soil cleaned-up from growing weeds. A large quantity of weed seeds is likely to germinate and emerge at the same time than the cover plants. As a consequence, we assume that most of the weed control by competition for resources should occur when both cover plants and weeds are in early stages of development. Because competition for light is recognized to be size-asymmetricdi.e., larger plants have a disproportionate advantage in competition, suppressing the growth of smaller ones  Soil fertility may also decrease over the successive banana production cycles. Cover plants may have positive effects on the level of resources available for the banana and thus enhance banana growth and yield by improving the nutrient cycling. Cover plants may improve the nutrient cycling by two main processes: complementarity for soil resources and nutrient return (see Section 3.3 and Figure  2 ). First, cover plants that acquire soil resources in complementarity with the banana improve the resource use efficiency of the system and may decrease nutrient leaching. Atmospheric nitrogen fixation is a particular case of complementarity for resources. Second, cover plants destroyed at the end of the fallow period may return a high amount of nutrients to the soil and facilitate the growth of young bananas. During banana production cycles, the gradual deposition of cover plant litter may return substantial amounts of nutrients to the soil. These services are targeted during the fallow period and/or the banana production cycles (Figure  1 ). However, when the cover plant is grown during the banana production cycles, it may compete with the banana for resources or have an allelopathic effect, as weeds do. This represents a disservice toward banana production, and a well-chosen cover plant should result in a positive balance between the three services presented above and this dis-service. Competition between cover plants and banana appears to be more complex than competition between cover plants and weeds that establish at the same time, in relation to change in plant size of banana across time. Indeed, banana height varies strongly with time, from around 30 cm at plantation, the same order of magnitude as most cover plants, to more than 3 m at harvest, much taller than cover plants. Similar variations of maximal rooting depth, although of a lower amplitude, are also observed. As a consequence of these size variations, we assume that (1) shortly after banana plantation, when banana are small, competition for light mainly determines the effect of cover plants on bananas because of its size-asymmetric nature, (2) during the remaining of the production cycles, when bananas shade the cover plants, competition for soil resources mainly determines the effect of cover plants on bananas (see Section 3.4 and Figure  2 ). 
 The choice of cover plants depends on the services targeted, and on their response to the constraints imposed by the banana cultivation (full light during the fallow period, shade and high level of humidity when the banana cover develops, frequent trampling resulting from the frequent interventions on the plot.) (Figure  1 ). The services targeted and the constraints imposed differ primarily between the two phases of the sequence followed in banana cropping systems. During these phases, the management of the cover plant may also influence the services delivered by the cover plants. We suggest to identify usages of cover plants, defined by the phase of the sequence in which the cover plant is used and its managementdif anydto facilitate the choice of the best adapted cover plants. Each usage is characterized by a bundle of services targeted. In the French West Indies, we previously identified four usages of cover plants in banana cropping systems and their targeted services  1 ) However, even for a single usage, any single cover plant hardly provides all the services targeted simultaneously, because of trade-offs between services. The objective is thus to seek species (or genotypes) that offer the best trade-offs and synergies among services (e.g.,  
 In this section, we conducted a literature survey to analyze agrosystem processes and identify cover plant traits related to the four services and disservice identified above (Figure  2  and Table  1 ). Given that traits impact ecosystem processes and services through the functional structure of communities  1  and 2 ). Their measurement methods are presented in Table  2  and Appendix. Abbreviations are explained in Table  3 . 
 Plants show a variety of response to pests from highly attractive (trap crop) to strongly repellent plants. These responses are based on passive mechanisms (plants are constitutively host or nonhost) or active mechanisms that can be constitutive or inducted  Table  1  Cover plants characteristics considered as markers of the main ecosystem processes associated with the services and dis-service expected in a bananadcover plant cropping system (a semiperennial cropping system). Markers are defined at three levels of organization: organisms (plant traits sensu sticto) (plain text), populations (density of individuals) (text in bold), and communities or in interaction with other organisms (text in italics). "Primary markers" are proposed to assess the agrosystem processes on the basis of their ease of acquisition and of their relevance. "Secondary markers" are considered more complicated to acquire and/or less relevant to assess the processes. For a better analysis, processes are decomposed into their main components. The direction of the markerse processes relationships is indicated between brackets. Abbreviations are given in   1  Cover plants characteristics considered as markers of the main ecosystem processes associated with the services and dis-service expected in a bananadcover plant cropping system (a semiperennial cropping system). Markers are defined at three levels of organization: organisms (plant traits sensu sticto) (plain text), populations (density of individuals) (text in bold), and communities or in interaction with other organisms (text in italics). "Primary markers" are proposed to assess the agrosystem processes on the basis of their ease of acquisition and of their relevance. "Secondary markers" are considered more complicated to acquire and/or less relevant to assess the processes. For a better analysis, processes are decomposed into their main components. The direction of the markerse processes relationships is indicated between brackets. Abbreviations are given in   (þ) Aboveground biomass (þ)dHeight (þ)dMaximal diameter of the ellipse in which the plant is embedded (þ) Rapidity Seed mass (À)dSLA (þ) Height growth rate (þ)dLAI (þ)d RGR a (þ)dLAR a (þ)dNAR a (þ)d LMR a (þ (þ)dLAR a,td (þ) MAI (þ)dAboveground area-to-mass ratio at destruction (þ) Slow mulch decomposition Chemical composition of litter LDMC (þ) Fiber, lignin, and cellulose concentration (þ)dLignin/cellulose (þ)dLignin/N (þ)dLignin/P (þ)dN/P (þ) Physical properties of living leaves Initial C/N ratio (þ) Leaf tensile strength (þ) 
 
 Functional Traits to Assess the Services Provided by Cover Plants Table  1  Cover plants characteristics considered as markers of the main ecosystem processes associated with the services and dis-service expected in a bananadcover plant cropping system (a semiperennial cropping system). Markers are defined at three levels of organization: organisms (plant traits sensu sticto) (plain text), populations (density of individuals) (text in bold), and communities or in interaction with other organisms (text in italics). "Primary markers" are proposed to assess the agrosystem processes on the basis of their ease of acquisition and of their relevance. "Secondary markers" are considered more complicated to acquire and/or less relevant to assess the processes. For a better analysis, processes are decomposed into their main components. The direction of the markerse processes relationships is indicated between brackets. Abbreviations are given in    
 Secondary metabolites like terpenoids, glucosinolates, or tannins have long been recognized as the major means of defense of plants  The amount and type of defense was proposed to depend on the resource availability in the environment  We propose to use the host status of cover plants, assessed in a bioassay conducted in pots (see Appendix) to assess direct control of plant-parasitic nematodes (Tables  1  and 2 ). 
 Food Web Cover plants may control pests indirectly because they can produce, by their wounded parts, signaling volatile organic compounds that may attract predators of the pest  Cover plants may also control plant-parasitic nematodes indirectly because, as they are basal resource for soil fauna, they may orient the soil community with potential modifications of the relative abundance between plant-parasitic nematodes and their predators, e.g., carnivorous nematodes or arthropods. It was shown that different cover plant species affected differently the absolute abundance and the structure of the soil nematode community and then the abundance of plant-parasitic nematodes  As a substitute to an easily measurable plant trait and according to the preliminary results presented above, we propose to evaluate the potential of cover plants to affect the structure of the nematode food web in a bioassay, to assess its ability to control indirectly a specific plant-parasitic nematode (Tables  1  and 2 ). This potential can be assessed from soil food web indices  
 Cover plants can control weeds by three main processes: competition for resources, development of a physical barrier to germination and emergence, and allelopathy. As competition for light is recognized to be size-asymmetricd larger plants have a disproportionate advantage in competition, suppressing the growth of smaller ones  
 From a general point of view, the competitive effect of a plant (its ability to suppress other individuals,  
 The role of plant height in competitive ability of plants was reported by many authors, taller plants having a larger access to light than smaller ones (e.g.,  
 The speed of development of the zone of influence can be measured by the height growth rate, proposed as a good measure of the ability of plants to capture light in the presence of competitors  We assume that, in the early stage of plant developmentdwhich is the stage where most of the competition between cover plants and weeds occur (see Section 2.3)dthe soil cover can be estimated by the leaf area index, the m 2 of leaf area per m 2 of ground area. The leaf area index at time t (LAI t ) depends on the number of individuals per unit soil area (d) and the plant leaf area (LA t , in m 2 ): LAI t ¼ d$LA t ( 1 ) LA t is expressed as the product of the plant aboveground biomass at time t (BM a,t , in g) and the leaf area per unit plant aboveground biomass (leaf area ratio aboveground, LAR a , in m 2 g À1 ). LA t ¼ BM a;t $LAR a (2) BM a,t can be calculated from the plant aboveground growth rate, expressed by the aboveground relative aboveground growth rate (RGR a , in g g À1 day À1 ) between t 1 and t 2  RGR a ¼ 1 BM a $ dBM a dt (3) The aboveground biomass accumulated between emergence (BM a,0 , the plant biomass at emergence) and time t can thus be expressed as: BM a;t ¼ BM a;0 $exp ðt$RGR a Þ (4) Functional Traits to Assess the Services Provided by Cover Plants BM a,0 has been shown to be related to the seed mass (e.g.,  BM a;0 ¼ g$seed mass (5) where g is a constant. Combining Eqns (2), (  4 ) and (  5 ) leads to the following expression of LA t : LA t ¼ LAR a $g$seed mass$exp ðt$RGR a Þ (6) RGR a can be further expressed as the product of LAR a and of the rate of dry mass increase per unit leaf area (net assimilation rate for the aerial biomass, NAR a in g m À2 day À1 )  RGR a ¼ NAR a $LAR a (7) Assuming that, in the first stages of plant development, LAR a does not vary with time, Eqns (  6 ) and (  7 ) lead to a final expression of LA t for the first stages of plant development: LA t ¼ LAR a $g$seed mass$expðt$NAR a $LAR a Þ (8) A rapid and large soil cover to overcompete weeds can thus be achieved using cover plants that: (1) develop a large leaf surface per unit aboveground biomass (high LAR a ), (2) have high seed mass, or (3) grow rapidly with a high RGR a . We consider that an efficient weed control occurs when the cover plant crown closes, as assumed in models of crop loss by weed competition  3 ). The results show that whole plant leaf area varies exponentially with RGR a for a given seed mass, while leaf area varies linearly with seed mass for a given RGR a . As a consequence, to develop a large leaf area, species with a large seed mass also need to have a large RGR a . By contrast, species with large RGR a may develop a large leaf area with a larger range of seed masses. Selecting species with a high RGR a thus appears more efficient to cover rapidly a large soil cover and overcompete weeds than selecting species with a high seed mass. This is all the more important that a combination of high RGR a and high seed mass does not seem to occur across species  RGR a and seed mass are thus important traits related to the rapid early growth. RGR a , which is difficult and time-consuming to assess for a large number of species, has been shown to be more tightly related to LAR a , than to NAR a  6 ): LA t ¼ LAR a $g$seed mass$expðt$RGR a Þ (see Section 3.2.1.2). The leaf area ratio aboveground (LAR a ) was fixed at 0.015 m 2 g À1 according to mean values of specific leaf area (SLA) and leaf mass ratio aboveground (LMR a ) observed by  decomposed as the product of the proportion of the plant aboveground biomass invested in leaves (the leaf mass ratio aboveground, LMR a in g g À1 ) and the leaf area per unit leaf mass (specific leaf area, SLA in m 2 g À1 ): LAR a ¼ LMR a $SLA (9) SLA was reported to be the most important factor explaining variations in LAR a and as a consequence, this leaf trait was recognized as the most important source of variation in RGR a  
 The capacity of cover plants to maintain a competitive effect on weeds over time depends on their life history (short annual, annual, or perennial) and their leaf habit (deciduous or evergreen), but also on their ability to survive biotic and abiotic stresses (pest and diseases, drought, shading, herbivory.), which can be related to a variety of morphological or physiological traits (e.g.,  
 Considering the specificities of banana cropping systems (see Section 2.3), we assume that most of the weed control by competition for light should occur when both cover plants and weeds are in early stages of development. At this time, the cover plant soil cover, i.e., the lateral development of its zone of influence, has a higher influence on weed control than its height growth. As a consequence, we propose to assess the ability of cover plants to control weeds by light competition with four markers: the projected area of plant canopy, to assess the capacity of cover plants to develop a large zone of influence, the seed mass and the SLA, to assess the rapidity of this development, and the plant life history, to assess the persistence of the cover (Tables  1  and 2 ). These markers were chosen according to their recognized relevance for defining primary axis of specialization in plants. 
 The gradual deposition of plant litter during growth or the production of mulch after the destruction of the plant cover at the end of a fallow period act as a physical barrier preventing germination and emergence of weeds  The efficiency of the physical barrier produced by plant cover destruction was shown to depend on weed sensibility to mulch and on the mulch area index (MAI), the m 2 of mulch area per m 2 of ground area  MAI ¼ d$PA td ( 10 ) where d is the number of individuals per unit soil area and PA td is the total surface of the aboveground organs of a plant at the time it is destroyed. Introducing the aboveground biomass of the plant at the time it is destroyed (BM a,td ) into Eqn (10) leads to: MAI ¼ d$BM a;td $ PA td BM a;td (11) where PA td /BM a,td is the plant aboveground area-to-mass ratio at the time it is destroyed. In terms of traits, MAI therefore depends on the aboveground standing (live and dead) biomass and on the aboveground area-to-mass ratio of the cover plant at the time it is destroyed. Considering that for most cover plants, the area of stems is negligible compared to that of leaves, the aboveground area-to-mass ratio can be approximated by the aboveground leaf area ratio (LAR a , see Section 3.2.1.2.) at the time the plant is destroyed. As a consequence: MAI y d$BM a;td $LAR a;td (12) Over time, the efficiency of the physical barrier also depends on the length of time during which the mulch can persist on the soil, which is inversely related to its rate of decomposition. This rate depends on climate, soil characteristics and is positively related to the potential litter Functional Traits to Assess the Services Provided by Cover Plants decomposability. At a worldwide scale, the latter was found to explain a higher part of variability in decomposition rates between species than either climate or soil N concentration  We therefore propose to use the aboveground plant biomass at the time the plant is destroyed, LAR a,td (composed of SLA and LMA a ), LDMC and the initial C/N ratio of mulch to assess the cover plant ability to provide a physical barrier against germination and emergence of weeds (Tables  1  and 2 ). 
 Allelopathy is an interference mechanism by which plants release molecules (called allelochemicals) that affect seed germination, plant physiology, growth and survival of other plants. A large number of allelochemicals, from more than 20 families (phenolic compounds and other secondary metabolites), were discovered during the last two decades in root exudates, volatile compounds, or decomposing tissues  As easily measured plant traits related to the release of allelochemicals have not been identified as yet, we propose to use the allelopathic potential of cover plants to assess their ability to control weeds by allelopathic interference (Tables  1  and 2 ). We define the allelopathic potential as the potential of a plant to impair neighbors' growth due to the release of allelochemicals, which can be assessed with a bioassay using plant leachates or plant extracts  
 Cover plants may improve the nutrient cycling by complementarity for soil resource capture, in particular symbiotic fixation of nitrogen, and by the return of nutrients to the soil in their litters. The two processes improve the resource use efficiency of the agrosystem  
 Complementarity for soil resource capture between cover plants and the banana could take three forms: spatial complementarity if their roots exploit separated soil niche, temporal complementarity if their periods of high demand do not overlap, and qualitative complementarity if they acquire different forms of the same resource  Experimental evidence of spatial complementarity was provided in cultivated systems (row vs interrow, depth vs surface) (e.g.,  Temporal complementarities between plants are commonly exploited with plant rotations  Finally, plant may complement if they acquire different forms of the same resource. Indeed, plants may differ in their ability to acquire the three forms of N: NO 3 À , NH 4 þ , and atmospheric N (the specific case of atmospheric N fixation is developed in the next subsection). The affinity for NO 3 À and NH 4 þ varies substantially among species  As a conclusion, we propose to use (1) the difference of maximal rooting depth between the banana and the cover plant and the root impact density of cover plant observed on a soil profile to assess spatial complementarity, (2) and the plant phenology to assess temporal complementarity (Tables  1  and 2 ). These markers were chosen because they offer a good compromise between relevance for assessing complementarity between plants and simplicity of measurement. No marker for complementarity of resource form was selected because none currently available is either precise and/or easy to assess. 
 Fixation of nitrogen from the atmosphere provides an alternative source of N that allows sustaining a higher demand on the soil N compartment. In that sense, N-fixing plants would complement nonfixing plants. The plant N fixation activity depends primarily on the number, mass and, morphology of fixing nodules, which may vary greatly between species  As a conclusion and because of its simplicity of measurement, we propose to use the presence/absence of nodules to assess the capacity of cover plants to fix atmospheric N (Tables  1  and 2 ). 
 Cover plants return the nutrients contained in their tissues by the gradual deposition of litter during growth or after the destruction of the plant at the end of the fallow period. The amount of nutrients returned to the soil is positively related to the amount of litter biomass, its nutrient concentration, and its decomposition and mineralization rates. Traits related to the decomposition rate of the litter were presented in Section 3.2.2. Most of them are also related to the mineralization rate. Aboveground and belowground litters both impact the amount of nutrients returned to the soil. However, because the relative importance of belowground and aboveground litter biomasses is little studied and because mechanisms of belowground litter deposition are still poorly known, we focus here on the aboveground litter. 
 The amount of aboveground litter biomass produced by gradual deposition of litter during growth is related to the green aboveground biomass and to the dynamics of litter production. The latter can be assessed by the life span of organs (mainly leaves), which has been found to be negatively related to SLA  The nutrient concentration of plant litter depends on the green plant nutrient concentration and the nutrient resorption efficiency (the percentage reduction of nutrient content between green and senesced leaves, see  As a conclusion, we propose to use (1) the aboveground biomass and the plant phenology to assess the ability of cover plants to produce and lay down a large amount of litter, (2) LDMC of green leaves and the initial C/N ratio of litter to assess the speed of decomposition and mineralization of the litter, and (3) the green-leaf nutrient concentration to assess litter nutrient concentration (Tables  1  and 2 ). 
 Cover plants may also directly interfere with the banana, reducing its yield by competition for aboveground or belowground resources but also by allelopathic interference (see Section 3.2.3 in the case of weeds). 
 Cover plants may impair the capacity of the banana to intercept light in two ways: growing taller than the banana or growing onto the banana. As discussed in Section 3.2.1., aboveground biomass, height and height growth rate can be used to assess the ability of plants to grow taller than others and to compete for light  4 ). The dynamics of height difference   and CP2 ). When DH i is positive, the banana does not suffer from light competition with the cover plant; when DH i is negative, the banana is likely to suffer from light competition with the cover plant. A cover plant can be taller than the banana at a certain time (DH 1 < 0) and smaller later in the growing season (DH 1 0 > 0). Others are always smaller than the banana (DH 2 and DH 2 0 > 0). At any given time, some cover plants might be smaller than the banana (DH 2 > 0), while others can be taller (DH 1 < 0). This illustration points to the necessity of considering the dynamics of height difference between the banana and cover plants to assess the outcome of competition. between the cover plant and the banana should thus be a more accurate marker of competitive interactions, although this is more difficult and time-consuming to assess. A cover plant can also shade the banana if it has the capacity to climb onto it: plants with creeping or twining growth forms can climb onto plants and then become strong competitors, regardless of their height. The dynamics of height difference between the canopy of the banana and that of the cover plant and the growth form of the cover plant can therefore be used to assess the ability of a cover plant to strongly compete for light with the banana (Tables  1  and 2 ). 
 Contrary to competition for light, belowground competition for soil resources is assumed to be size-symmetric: the advantage in competition is proportional to plant size  It is generally accepted that plants compete for soil resources when their zones of exploration overlap  Belowground competition between plants also depends on the intensity of exploitation of the soil volume explored by the roots. This intensity of exploitation depends on the density of exploration of the soil, the pattern of root distribution within the soil, which is very difficult to assess in the field, and the rate of resource uptake by roots  As a conclusion and acknowledging that mechanisms of soil resource acquisition are specific for each resource, we propose to use the aboveground biomass, the difference of maximal rooting depth between the banana and the cover plant, the density of root impacts counted on a soil profile, and SRL to assess the ability of a cover plant to compete for soil resources with the banana (Tables  1  and 2 ). 
 The previous subsections identified markers related to the processes and services targeted in banana cropping systems. Here, by an analysis of positive or negative covariations of markers common to several processes (Table  4 ), we formulated hypotheses on trade-offs and synergies between processes and between services. First, numerous processes analyzed above are positively related to the aboveground plant biomass: competition for light with weeds, production of a physical barrier to germination and emergence, nutrient return to the Table  4  Markers related to at least two ecosystem processes associated with the services and dis-service expected in a bananadcover plant cropping system. Hypotheses on relationships between processes are followed by "?". According to the direction of the relationship between the markers and the processes (see Table  1 ), whether the covariations between processes in rows and processes in columns is expected to be positive or negative is indicated into brackets. They suggest respectively synergies and tradeoffs between processes. "(?)" indicates that the direction of the relationship is unknown. soil, indirect control of plant-parasitic nematodes, and competition for light and soil resources with the banana (Table  4 ). Based on the aboveground biomass alone, synergies between these processes and the associated services and dis-service are suggested, which means that cover plants with high biomass are expected to deliver the three services targeted in banana cropping systems and to the accompanying dis-service. 
 On the contrary, competition and complementarity for soil resources capture between the banana and the cover plant are related to traits associated to the soil volume explored and to the density of exploration in the opposite way (Table  4 ), suggesting a trade-off between these processes and the associated services (improvement of the nutrient cycling and interference with the banana dis-service). Cover plants efficient for one of these two processes are thus not likely to be efficient for the other. Nutrient return and the processes related to weed control have several markers in common that indicate positive or negative covariations between processes (Table  4 ). SLA is positively related to nutrient return and competition for light with weeds by rapid cover, while the leaf life span (dependent on the leaf habit) is related to nutrient return and persistent cover in the opposite way. This suggests respectively a synergy and a trade-off between nutrient return and rapid cover on the one hand and persistent cover on the other hand. Traits related to the decomposition of litter (LDMC, C/N) are negatively related to nutrient return and positively related to the production of an efficient barrier against weed germination and emergence, suggesting a trade-off between these two processes. Cover plants with easily degradable tissues are thus expected to be efficient sources of rapid nutrient return but inefficient physical barrier because of their weak persistence. Nutrient return and processes related to the control of plant-parasitic nematodes have also several markers in common, but which fail in identifying covariations between processes because they are related to them in different ways (Table  4 ). While the C/N ratio indicates a positive covariation between direct control and nutrient return, LDMC, N concentration and lignin content indicate a negative covariation. Similarly, fiber, lignin, and cellulose contents indicate a negative covariation between nutrient return and indirect control of plant-parasitic nematodes, while aboveground biomass indicates a positive covariation. The production of a physical barrier against weed germination and emergence and indirect control of plant-parasitic nematodes are related to fiber, lignin, and cellulose contents in the same way (Table  4 ), suggesting a synergy between these processes. Cover plants which provide an important longlasting dead cover are expected to have biophysical characteristics that do not attract or repel plant-parasitic-nematodes. Covariations between the production of a physical barrier and direct control of plant-parasitic nematodes are more difficult to establish as C/N and lignin content are related to the two processes in the same way while LDMC is related to these processes in a different way (Table  4 ). The production of a physical barrier against weed germination and emergence and competition for light with weeds by rapid soil cover are both positively related to LAR, suggesting a synergy between the two processes. Finally, the competition-defense hypothesis states that there is a trade-off between competitive ability and defense against enemies (e.g.,  4 ). The same trade-off is likely to occur between weed control by rapid soil cover and by allelopathy. The analysis of these traits common to different processes leads to two main conclusions. First, any single cover plant cannot provide all the processes and services targeted simultaneously because of trade-offs between processes. The objective is thus to seek species (or genotypes) that offer the best trade-offs and synergies among processes and services, according to the production objectives. Second, a trait-based identification of these trade-offs and synergies is difficult because several traits can be related to the same process, sometimes in different ways, and different processes can be related to a single service, also sometimes in different ways. A better knowledge on hierarchies of trait contributions to processes and of process contributions to services is thus required to identify general patterns of trade-offs and synergies between services. 
 The previous section has identified effect traits of cover plants associated with the targeted services in banana cropping systems. To assess the services delivered by the plant community, it is necessary to scale up from the level of individuals to that of communities and ecosystems  
 In agrosystems, plant density and spatial arrangement are not random and vary greatly between fields according to farmers' choices and constraints. Their effects on the efficiency of weed control (e.g.,  In trait-based approaches, this scaling-up is done through the assessment of the distribution of trait values in the community, i.e., by describing its functional structure. A wealth of metrics has recently been developed to describe this distribution  In particular, whether the density and the spatial arrangement affect the relationships between plant traits and ecosystem processes at given CWM and/or functional divergence values is an open question. We are not aware of any data set that would allow us to address this question. However, the theoretical analysis of agrosystem processes conducted in Section 3 highlighted the role of plant density for some of them (see Eqns (1) and (  10 )). If the effects of density and spatial arrangement were confirmed, additional metrics of community functional structure would have to be designed. Metrics expressing community functional structure on a soil area basis would account for the effects of density, but metrics integrating plant spatial arrangement appear less straightforward. The potential to combine methods from spatial ecology (e.g., spatially explicit models, spatial autocorrelation indices.), which enable us to assess the position of plants relative to each other, with methods currently used in trait-based analysis of services would have to be assessed. 
 Agrosystems are the place of intense and frequent disturbance resulting from technical practices  A practical set of rules to identify circumstances under which ITV should be taken into account in studies of natural ecosystems was proposed  Methods to incorporate ITV in trait-based studies have recently been proposed  
 The strong disturbance resulting from technical practices (e.g., plowing, mowing, or harvest) and from the other variations in the environmental conditions (e.g., banana canopy closure during the production cycle) may modify species trait values (see Section 4.2), even on a short timescale (within a phase of the cropping system sequence). These rapidly changing conditions are also likely to induce variations in the species composition of the community, because they select some species but not others. Variations in species trait values and in species composition result in variations in the functional structure of the community. Assessing the services delivered by a community on the base of an instantaneous description of its functional structure may thus not always be accurate. How to consider short-term changes in functional structure of the community when assessing the services delivered by agrosystem communities is a third issue of the scaling-up from plant traits to services in agrosystems. The first difficulty is to describe the variations of species composition in response to changes in environmental factors (including the effects of technical practices). To do so, trait-based population dynamics models (e.g., model of seed bank dynamic,  Including the short-term changes in the community functional structure for service evaluation will likely come through the dynamic modeling of community composition, traits, and services. The need to carry out such a work probably relies on the magnitude of the changes in community functional structure observed and on the degree of precision sought in the service evaluation. Situations where changes in the community functional structure are or are not negligible need to be identified. 
 In this article, we presented how a functional trait-based approach can be used to assess the services delivered by complex plant communities in agrosystems. Such an approach, originated in the field of ecology, appears highly promising to tackle agronomic issues. From a theoretical point of view, its use provides an appropriated framework to study the effects of plant diversity on agrosystems. From a practical point of view it provides a simplified representation of plants and complex communities, adapted to the study of multispecies cropping systems. On the other hand, the application of traitbased approaches to agrosystems constitutes a challenging test of their genericity. It raises specific questions and stresses the need for new methodological developments, which could be part of a research agenda at the interface between the two disciplines. We exemplified the approach with banana cropping systems, a semiperennial cropping system. The analysis of such systems allowed us to investigate processes relevant for both annual and Functional Traits to Assess the Services Provided by Cover Plants perennial cover plant-based cropping systems and to provide a shortlist of traits to assess the main services targeted in these systems. This approach is applicable to all cultivated agrosystems, providing that the services targeted in these systems are identified and that the associated traits are adjusted if necessary (e.g., in temperate climate). It was already used to analyze and manage the services delivered by grasslands (e.g.,  
 The general principles of these methods are presented. They are inspired by published studies (references provided) and authors' personal expertise. 
 We suggest using one of the two recognized methods to assess the allelopathic effect of plants, which use plant leachates  
 We suggest assessing the potential of cover plants to affect the structure of the nematode food web by analyzing indices of the soil food web analysis proposed by  
 Trench profiles are commonly used to assess the spatial distribution of plant roots  4. Host Status Toward a Specific Nematodede.g., 
 The host status toward the root parasite Radopholus similis reflects the R. similis multiplication rate in roots of cover plants. It can be assessed in a bioassay conducted in pot filled with sterilized soil. Cover plant seeds are sown and 2 months after germination, each pot is inoculated with a known number of R. similis grown as monoxenic cultures  GaëlleDamour et al.    
			 Functional Traits to Assess the Services Provided by Cover Plants
The dataset presented in this article (doi:10.18167/DVN1/MNMXRZ) provides data on the growth of 17 species of cover crops grown as individuals in growth chamber during one month. It is composed of 17 rows and 18 columns. The first five columns are species names and abbreviation, botanical group and the times of the two plant harvest. The last thirteen columns are aboveground traits: five raw traits (seed mass, leaf area and plant biomass at emergence and after one month) and eight calculated traits (aboveground leaf mass fraction, plant-scale specific leaf area, aboveground leaf area ratio), aboveground absolute and relative growth rates on a biomass basis and on a leaf area basis. Table  1  presents the list of the species names along with their taxonomic groups. Table  2  presents the list of traits along with their units. Fig.  1  represents the diversity of the values obtained for two traits (aboveground specific leaf at the leaf scale and aboveground relative growth rate) for the 17 species of the dataset. 
 The study was conducted in a growth chamber located at the CIRAD experimental station of Neufchateau in Guadeloupe (French West Indies). Seventeen cover crop species (Table  2 ) were grown for one month in pots of 2 L. Each species was grown in ten pots, and one individual per pot was maintained after cotyledons emergence. Details on pot filling materials, seed preparation before sowing and sowing are provided in Damour et al.  Seed mass (SM) was determined after seed oven-drying at 70 C until mass stabilization. When the first leaf was fully developed, five replicates of each species were harvested and pooled [see 1, for details on the harvest method]. The initial leaf area (LA 0 ) was measured with WinRhizo Pro analytical software (Regent Instruments) and the initial aboveground biomass (BM a,0 ) was determined after oven-drying of the whole aboveground parts (at 70 C until weight stabilization). After one month, the five remaining replicates of each species were harvested and pooled. Leaves and stems were separated. The total leaf area at one month (LA 1 ) was measured with WinRhizo Pro and the leaves and stems  
 The data present plant and leaf traits of 17 species of cover crops and could be used by other researchers who need data on these species. The data enable other researchers to compare their own data with this dataset and to extent their analysis. These data could be used in meta-analysis on cover crop traits. biomasses were determined after oven-drying (at 70 C until weight stabilization). The aboveground biomass at one month (BM a,1 ) was calculated as the sum of the leaf and stem biomasses. Eight functional traits associated to leaf area development were then calculated  (1) AGR as ¼ (LA 1 e LA 0 )/(t 1 -t 0 ) (2) The aboveground relative growth rate was calculated both on a biomass basis and on a leaf area basis (RGR a , RGR as respectively), using the equations: RGR a ¼ [ln(BM a,1 ) e ln(BM a,0 )]/(t 1 -t 0 ) (3)  The net assimilation rate (NAR a ) was calculated as the ratio between RGR a and LAR a . All traits, except SLA ps were measured according to the standardized protocols of trait measurements [2].
Abstract Comparative functional ecology seeks to understand why and how ecological systems and their components operate differently across environments. Although traditionally used in (semi)-natural situations, its concepts and methods could certainly apply to address key issues in the large variety of agricultural systems encountered across the world. In this review, we present major advances in comparative plant functional ecology that were made possible over the last two decades by the rapid development of a trait-based approach to plant functioning and prospects to apply it in agricultural situations. The strength of this approach is that it enables us to assess the interactions between organisms and their environment simultaneously on a large number of species, a prerequisite to address questions relative to species distribution, community assembly and ecosystem functioning. The trait concept will be first defined, before presenting a conceptual framework to understand the effects of environmental factors on plant community structure and ecosystem properties via plant traits. We will then argue that leading dimensions of variation among species can be captured by some selected traits and show that a combination of three easily measured traits-specific leaf area (the ratio of leaf area to leaf dry mass), plant height and seed mass-enables us to assess how different species use their resources, interact with neighbours and disperse in time and space. The use of traits to address central questions in community ecology will be reviewed next. It will be shown that traits allow us to (1) understand how plant species are sorted according to the nature of environmental gradients, (2) evaluate the relative importance of habitat filtering and limiting similarity in the process of community assembly and (3) quantify two main components of community functional structure, namely, community-weighted means of traits and community functional divergence. The relative impacts of these two components on ecosystem properties will then be discussed in the case of several components of primary productivity, litter decomposition, soil water content and carbon sequestration. There is strong support for the biomass ratio hypothesis, which states that the extent to which the traits of a species affect those ecosystem properties depends on the abundance of this species in the community. Assessing the role of functional divergence among species on ecosystem properties will require major methodological breakthroughs, both in terms of metrics and statistical procedures to be used. In agricultural situations, we show that trait-based approaches have been successfully developed to assess the impacts of management practices on (1) the agronomic value of grasslands and (2) the functional composition and structure of crop weed communities and how these could affect the functioning of the crop. Applications in forestry are still poorly developed, especially in temperate regions where the number of species in managed forest remains relatively low. The last decades of research have led to the constitution of large data sets of plant traits, which remain poorly compatible and accessible. Recent advances in the field of ecoinformatics suggest that major progress could be achieved in this area by using improved metadata standards and advancing trait domain ontologies. Finally, concluding remarks, unanswered questions and directions for research using the functional approach to biodiversity made possible by the use of traits will be discussed in the contexts of ecological and agronomical systems. The latter indeed cover a wide range of environmental conditions and biological diversity, and the prospect for reducing environmental impacts in highly productive, lowdiversity systems will certainly imply improving our skills for the management of more diverse systems prone to a trait-based approach as reviewed here. 1 Introduction: a trait-based approach to comparative functional ecology A prominent field of research in functional ecology seeks to understand why and how ecological systems and their components operate differently across environments (e.g.  There is a growing consensus that a trait-based approach has a strong potential to address several of the issues introduced above. A non-exhaustive list includes (1) the functioning of organisms and how it relates to the environment (e.g.  1  and see Section 2), traits enable us to capture the interactions between organisms and their environment (both abiotic and biotic) and bring a functional perspective to the study of controls on biodiversity and how it affects processes at higher levels of organisation. The aim of this review is to present the rationale for the traitbased approach and how it can be used to address some pending questions in functional ecology. It will be restricted to the case of terrestrial plants, to which a large amount of research has been devoted in the last 20 years  2 Definitions and a framework 2.1 What is a trait? A thorough analysis of the literature reveals that the term 'trait' has been used in somewhat different meanings in the field of ecology and population biology  1  shows examples of traits, which may be actual functions related to, e.g. reproduction (fecundity, dispersal, etc.) or vegetative growth (light interception, nutrient uptake, etc.), or traits related to these functions but which are more easily measured ('functional markers' sensu  As discussed by  Applying  Although the approach presented above takes an ecological perspective on traits, it should be borne in mind that, since all species have a common ancestor at some point in their evolutionary history, there will always be some degree of similarity between species traits related to their common ancestry (cf.  2  presents the distribution of leaf mass per area (LMA, the ratio of leaf mass to area, see Section 3.1) with respect to the major clades of the Tracheophytes, showing that divergence between gymnosperms and angiosperms is a major contributor to the present-day spread of this trait  The future development of such analyses on a broad range of traits should help teasing out the phylogenetic from the ecological signal on trait values of extant species. 
 The response-and-effect framework around which most of this review articulates involves several components and steps as shown in Fig.  3 . In this scheme, a species is represented by two sets of connected traits (same symbol but different colours) to acknowledge the fact that some sets of traits might vary independently from one another across species (as is the case for, e.g. vegetative and regenerative traits: cf.  3  shows the range of values displayed for these two types of traits within a species pool found in a particular geographical region and from which local communities assemble (cf.  3 ) compared to that present in the species pool, thereby inducing convergence in trait values. By contrast, the process of limiting similarity affects the spacing of trait values (trait divergence: simple horizontal line in Fig.  3 ), with two possible hypotheses. Hypothesis 1 assumes that both habitat filtering due to environmental factors and limiting similarity affect the same set of traits; this may happen when filtering is due, e.g. to resource limitation and when competitive interactions among individuals are strong. Hypothesis 2 postulates that different sets of traits are involved in the two processes; this may happen when limiting similarity is induced by disturbances  The bottom part of the scheme (from the two lateral bended arrows downwards) presents hypotheses pertaining to the relationships between community structure and ecosystem properties (EP, hereafter; a list of abbreviations used in the review is given in Table  1 ) (based on  3 ), such as standing biomass or soil water content, and fluxes within or between compartments, such Trait dominance and divergence 
 Fig.  3  A response-and-effect framework for effects of environmental factors on plant community structure and ecosystem properties (EP) via plant traits. In this scheme, a species is represented by two sets of connected traits with the same symbol but different colours. The upper part of the scheme (down to the two lateral bended arrows) presents hypotheses for assembly effects on within-community trait distribution (based on  presents hypotheses pertaining to the relationships between community structure and EP (box at the bottom of the figure): compartments (e.g. standing biomass or soil water content), represented by symbols, and fluxes (e.g. primary productivity or decomposition of litter) within or between compartments, represented by arrows (based on  2  Phylogeny of LMA (the ratio of leaf mass to leaf area, the inverse of SLA: for further discussion, see Section 2.1) for major clades of Tracheophytes (data from  3 ). EP are assumed to depend on at least two components of community functional diversity (FD): attribute dominance and attribute divergence, which both relate to the shape of the trait value distribution within the community (see Sections 4 and 5). Those particular traits that determine the effects of plants on ecosystem functions, such as biogeochemical cycling or propensity to disturbance, are called 'effect traits' (cf.  The following sections will illustrate and discuss various aspects of this scheme. We will begin by a prominent research area for functional traits, which can be thought of as developing a short list of trait dimensions  
 Among the wealth of traits measurable on an individual, those of interest to comparative functional ecology must fill at least four conditions  4 ) have a consistent rankingnot necessarily constant absolute valuesacross species when environmental conditions vary  Identifying such measurable traits provide the means to compare species worldwide. However, individual traits should not be considered in isolation because pairs or groups of traits often co-vary  
 Persistence in a site depends to a large extent on how individuals use (i.e. acquire, retain and loose) their resources. The functioning of green leaves is of prime importance since it sets the pace of carbon input in the plants (and ecosystems) and controls many aspects of plant metabolism. A fundamental trade-off between fast acquisition rate and efficient conservation of resources has been discussed in the ecological literature for the last four decades  It is recognised that many of the physiological and protective features of green leaves persist through senescence, leading to the so-called afterlife effects  4  Relationship between LLS and maximum leaf photosynthetic rate in the Glopnet data set (for details, see Section 3.1). Each point represents a species, and colours are for different biomes: yellow tropical forests, green temperate forests, blue arctic tundra, dark purple Mediterranean garrigue. Correlation coefficient, -0.82 (P < 0.001, n = 512). Data from  Among the traits involved in the LES, SLA appears as the easiest, quickest and cheapest to measure and is thus widely used to assess the position of species on the acquisition/conservation trade-off  5 ). By contrast, in the few experiments where litter decomposition has been related to SLA and LDMC, the relationship has always been found to be tighter with the latter  Interestingly, recent broad-scale inter-specific comparisons of wood traits in trees suggest that an economics spectrum might also apply to other organs of the plant, the trunk in these particular cases  
 As an overall assessment of plant stature, height is a quantitative trait which has been adopted by virtually everyone doing comparative plant ecology  Height has been shown to be the primary driver of light extinction down the canopy of plant species (Fig.  6a )  This notion of potential canopy height is widely used for trees, for which the distinction between vegetative and reproductive heights can be ignored. This is not the case for herbaceous species, where the top of reproductive struc-tures may be substantially higher than the top of vegetative parts. It has, therefore, been argued that, in these species, vegetative and reproductive plant heights be explicitly considered as two different traits  Height also correlates with a number of other dimensions pertaining to plant stature. In trees, it is positively related to trunk basal area up to a certain height, with speciesdependent relationships (e.g.  Finally, plant height is also an important part of a coordinated suite of life history traits including seed mass, time to reproduction, longevity and the number of seeds a plant can produce per year  
 Seed mass varies among species over a range of more than ten orders of magnitude  A well-documented trade-off pertaining to seed production concerns seed mass and number. For a given carbon investment to reproduction, plants can either produce many small or few large seeds  7 ) and seed mass appears as the best easy predictor of seed output per square metre of canopy cover  The relationships between seed mass and species dispersal ability in space and time have also been the subject of much research. Dispersal in space has been related to seed mass, in that wind-dispersed seeds tend to be light in mass and that small seeds are associated with large seed production enhancing dispersal by itself  Finally, seed mass is connected with other traits such as growth form and plant height. On average, seed mass is higher in woody than in herbaceous species, in trees than in shrubs and in herbaceous perennials than in annuals  Individual seed mass (g, log scale) 10 -6 10 -5 10 -4 10 -3 10 -2 10 -1 10 0 Number of seeds per ramet (log scale) More generally, large species tend to produce larger seeds than small species  It is beyond the scope of this paper to review the different arguments put forward, and we will simply report here some of the concluding sentences proposed by  
 The restricted number of traits discussed above should be considered as capturing a shortlist of leading, readily quantifiable dimensions of variation among species  It is clear, however, that the limited number of dimensions captured by such a short list of traits cannot account for all aspects of plant and vegetation functioning. For example, to understand vegetation response to disturbance  Only above-ground traits, which are relatively easily accessible, have been discussed so far. Recent studies have endeavoured to provide the same kind of information below-ground, focusing on the functions of root traits, trade-offs among them, and how they relate to aboveground traits that could then be used as proxies for belowground function  4 A functional approach to plant community structure 4.1 Environmental gradients and response traits Plant functional traits have been intensively used to identify groups of species with similar response to a particular environmental factor (upper part of Fig.  3 ), defined as functional response groups  Recent reviews document which traits vary consistently along environmental gradients, thereby identifying 'response traits'  A key issue in this analysis of trait response to environmental factors is that the abundances of those species which persist in a community are usually not identical. In general, plant communities have a typical structure with a relatively small number of dominant species which account for a high proportion of the total biomass and a large number of minor species that account for a low proportion of the biomass  8a )  
 The need to identify rules governing the assembly of communities to predict which subset of the species pool found in a particular geographical region will occur in a specific habitat (first steps described in Fig.  2 ) was first recognised by  It has been hypothesised that community organisation was the result of three main filters operating at different levels  
 Identifying how community assembly processes shape the distributions of trait values within and among communities is a major goal of community ecology  2 ) due to common adaptation to the physical environment  2 ). By contrast, niche differentiation that limits interactions among similar plants-the limiting similarity principle-leads to trait divergence  Convergence of traits may also vary with time: divergence is often promoted in the regenerative phase  Changes in trait distribution among communities are not only due to species replacement: the intra-specific variability of traits due to phenotypic plasticity or ecotypic variation is far from being negligible (cf. Fig.  8b ) and may explain a substantial part of attribute variations along regional gradients  Recognising the importance of intra-specific variation among sites,  8 ). This partitioning of trait values builds on alpha and beta niche of species  8b ), an observation consistent with the hypothesis of trait convergence due to habitat filtering. By contrast, alpha trait values are generally highly variable, which might be interpreted as a limiting similarity effect  
 A highly debated issue is to understand whether trait convergence as discussed above is related to the position of species in the phylogeny  Understanding the influence of phylogeny on the functional structure of communities has been the topic of numerous experimental studies (for a recent review, see Cavender-  3 ), which will be made possible by the increasing availability of phylogenetic data, computing power and informatics tools  
 The functional structure of a community has been originally described by the diversity in functional types based on differences in life form, plant morphology or resource acquisition types (e.g. N-fixing or non-fixing species, C4 or C3 photosynthetic pathways, etc.)  This functional structure can be described through two components, value and range of traits (cf. Fig.  3 ), corresponding to two types of quantitative variables. The first ones allow one to estimate the average value of traits in the communities and can be written as: CFP ¼ X n i¼1 p i Â trait i ð1Þ where CFP represents the functional parameter of the community  The second type of variables aims at describing the functional dissimilarity among the species present in the communities. Numerous indices have been proposed to do so (reviewed in  The design and use of these indices are currently highly debated. A critical point is that they must meet several criteria to be of general use: they must be designed to deal with several traits if necessary, take into account species abundance and measure all facets of FD. First, the question of how many and which traits to use is crucial to get as complete an identification of FD as possible: traits must be relevant to account for mechanisms of species coexistence as well as effects of species on ecosystem functioning (see Section 5.1). Increasing the number of traits should thus make the identification of FD clearer; however, this can induce trivial relationships with species richness that should be avoided. These arguments led  9 ). Initially calculated with single-trait indices  5 Traits and ecosystem properties  10 , showing the relationships between net primary productivity (NPP) of different biomes and either annual rainfall or mean height of vegetation. For a detailed account of these different controls on various EP, the reader is referred to, e.g.  Awareness that plant communities have substantial impacts on EP has long been recognised (reviewed in  
 The selection effect forms the basis of the 'biomass ratio hypothesis' (BRH:  3 ). According to the BRH, EP therefore depend on CWM of effect traits  
 
 Fig.  9  Components of FD. Functional richness corresponds to the portion of niche axis represented by the range of trait values found in the community. Functional evenness and divergence represent, respectively, the regularity and divergence of distribution of traits across the niche axis. Here, we represent two theoretical cases representing contrasted patterns in functional evenness and divergence for a same functional richness and average trait value holds for some key biogeochemical processes such as primary productivity, components of the water balance, leaf digestibility and litter decomposition. 
 Several traits related to plant growth and/or to the LES described above have been shown to affect ecosystem NPP or some of its components. Early literature surveys, which did not take species abundance into account, have shown positive associations between whole-plant RGR averaged across species and ecosystem above-ground net primary productivity (ANPP) across biomes  NPP ¼ P n i¼1 N i Â Mo i Â ðe RGR i Âðt f Àt 0 Þ i À 1Þ ΔT ð2Þ where n is the total number of species in the community, N i is the number of individuals of species i per unit ground area, Mo i is the initial average biomass of individuals of species i, RGR i and (t f -t 0 ) i are, respectively, the RGR and period of active growth of species i and ΔT is the period over which NPP is assessed. Due to the difficulty to access the underground compartment, to date, most tests of Eq. 2 have been conducted taking only above-ground plant parts into account. Since realised RGR is particularly difficult to assess in the field, this relationship has been tested using either RGR data measured in the lab (RGR max ) or independent measurements of traits involved in the LES and/or assumed to be related to RGR (see Section 3.1).  10  Examples of potential abiotic and biotic controls on ANPP of terrestrial ecosystems. Relationships between ANPP and a annual precipitation (redrawn from Gower 2002) and b average height of the vegetation (data taken from  and to a combination of CWM_LDMC and traits of roots and rhizomes in mesocosms of mountain grasslands of Central France  In studies conducted on herbaceous ecosystems where maximum above-ground standing biomass (AGB mass ) was used as an estimate of ANPP (for discussion, see  ANPP is a ground area-based variable (expressed in, e.g. grammes per square metre per day), and in Eq. 1, traits are weighted by the absolute biomass of species in the community (N i ×Mo i ). This means that ANPP depends on the initial standing biomass of the whole community (see also Section 5.4) as much as on species traits. To account for this mass effect and assess more directly the role of traits as components of ecosystem productivity,  SNPP ¼ log e ð P n i¼1 p i Â e RGR i Âðt f Àt 0 Þ i Þ ΔT ð3Þ where p i is the initial proportion of species i in the community, instead of its biomass. Ecosystem production efficiency and SNPP are both in units of grammes per gramme of green biomass per unit time and can be viewed as the RGR of the whole community. In the survey conducted by  Contrasting with these results in support of the BRH,  Clearly, the impacts of abiotic factors vs. those of the functional structure of the community on components of ecosystem NPP requires further testing on a wide range of situations. 
 Given the close coupling between SNPP and/or ecosystem production efficiency and litter decomposition across ecosystems (e.g.  Since traits have a role both on the production and decomposition rates, we also expect effects on litter accumulation. CWM_LDMC was positively related to above-ground total dead matter in Australian grasslands  
 At any given time, the soil water content of a particular soil depends on the balance between rainfall, actual evapotranspiration from the plant cover, surface runoff and percolation through the soil  S tþ1 ¼ min½S t þ R Δt À E Δt À U Δt ; FC ð 4Þ where S t+1 and S t are soil water content at time t+1 and t, respectively, R Δt , E Δt and U Δt are rainfall, evaporation from the whole cover and water uptake by plants between t+1 and t (Δt), respectively, and FC is the soil field capacity (the soil water content at saturation after the gravitational water has percolated). According to Eq. 4, the decrease in soil water content after rainfall events, therefore, depends on E Δt and U Δt (see also  Since root distribution and maximum rooting depth of the different species as well as soil properties vary with soil depth  U dtði;jÞ ¼ M rootði;jÞ Â SRA i;j Â k i;j Â ðΨ soil;i À Ψ j Þ ð 5Þ where M root(i,j) , SRA i,j and k i,j are, respectively, the biomass of roots, the specific root area (SRA, the ratio of root area to root dry mass) and the root area-based hydraulic conductance to water transport of species j in layer i, while Ψ soil , i is the bulk soil water potential in layer i and Ψ j is the water potential of species j. If we assume additivity of the process among species, the decrease in soil water content over the entire soil profile can be written as: U dt ¼ X m i¼1 X n j¼1 ½M rootði;jÞ Â SRA i;j Â k i;j Â ðΨ soil;i À Ψ j Þ ð6Þ where n is the number of species in the community and m is the number of soil layers considered. Assuming that roots have a cylindrical shape, SRA can be written as: SRA ¼ RA root M root ¼ L root Â p Â d root M root ð7Þ where RA root , L root and d root are the root area, the root length and the average root diameter, respectively. Combining Eqs. 5 and 6 leads to: U dt ¼ X m i¼1 X n j¼1 ½L rootði;jÞ Â p Â d rootði;jÞ Â k i;j Â ðΨ soil;i À Ψ j Þ ð8Þ Equations 6 and 8 show that rooting depth and root distribution of the different species in the different soil layers will have impacts on the water content of these layers. It also shows that soil-plant hydraulic properties and plant water potential might affect soil water content, beyond the effects of biomass and/or length  To our knowledge, Eqs. 6 and 8 have not been tested directly in complex communities, but some studies have assessed the effects of individual traits appearing in either of these on soil water content. Working in alpine grasslands,  Recognising that whole-plant water uptake and transpiration are tightly coupled (cf.  Finally, the time dependence of water uptake should also be considered, which corresponds to the integration of Eqs. 6 and 8 over time. In particular, changes in root biomass and/or length in relation to the phenology of the different species which compose the communities will have impacts on soil water content  
 Numerous other components of biogeochemical cycles are likely to be affected by plant traits (reviewed in  11 ). Traits pertaining to plant growth rate, litter production and quality as discussed above play a substantial role in this respect. Beyond the qualitative identification of traits affecting soil C sequestration  11 ). Similarly, total soil carbon content was found to be negatively related to CWM_SLA and CWM_LNC and positively to CWM_LDMC in a Mediterranean old field succession  
 So far, only few studies have examined the impacts of FDvg on EP, either independently or in combination with CWM and abiotic effects. These were all conducted in perennial herbaceous communities, either from Europe  A striking example is given by the study conducted by  In most studies assessing the effects of FDvg on EP, these statistical effects were not clearly considered. This might explain why, in a number of studies, the effects of FDvg of different traits or combinations thereof were found to be either negative  A clear assessment of the impact of FDvg on EP will require that statistical procedures be validated and standardised. Only when this is done will we be able to detect the importance of complementarity among species for the functioning of ecosystems in natural and semi-natural environments. 
 The framework proposed by  In some of these experiments, simple plant traits were found to correlate with several EP. In the study by  12 ), while in the low nitrogen treatment of the same experiment, the soil water content assessed over the entire growing season (cf.  The large-scale 'Jena experiment', where 61 species common to Central European grasslands were grown in monocultures under similar environmental conditions, yielded more complex results after 4 months of growth  12  Relationship between observed and predicted ANPP in a common garden experiment where 12 Mediterranean species from three successional stages were grown at high (black circles) and low (white circles) levels of nitrogen supply  These few experiments conducted under comparable conditions for a given set of species show that the combinations of traits influencing EP are likely to vary according to the environmental conditions chosen and the time scale of the experiment. In particular, results obtained over the short term should not be extrapolated on a longer term, especially in perennial species. It is likely that answers to this complex issue will be better tackled by combining such controlled experiments with observational/ manipulative experiments in the field and modelling. 
 Ecosystem allometry is a recent perspective to the relationship between organisms and ecosystem functioning, which focuses on size distribution within communities  By definition, NPP is the sum of the growth of all individuals present in the community. The allometric approach proposes that whole-plant individual growth rate (GR) can be written as: GR ¼ b g Â M plant 3=4 ð9Þ where β g is the allometric coefficient relating growth rate to total plant mass (M plant ). The 3/4 scaling exponent reflects constraints on resource supply to individual cells  NPP ¼ X K k¼0 n k Â b g Â M plantðkÞ 3=4 ð10Þ where n k is the number of individuals in size class k per square metre. Further development of this equation shows that NPP should be proportional to the 3/4 power of total community phytomass  Further testing of this approach is warranted, especially in situations where the biomass range of the communities compared is narrower: from arctic tundra to tropical forests, community biomass varies approximately 600-fold, while in many cases, a much narrower range is of interest. Within grasslands, for example, differences of annual rainfall from 250 to 1,400 mm/year across the central grassland region of the USA induced a sevenfold range in biomass produced  
 In this section, we give examples of the use of traits in agricultural and forestry contexts. In doing so, we will identify the environmental gradients that are generated by human practices, and examine (1) the response traits to these gradients, be they generic or specific to the particular environmental conditions found in agricultural contexts;  
 Most experimental studies documenting the response of the functional structure of communities to gradients, and referred to so far in this paper, have been performed on grasslands. In this section, we selected only studies with an explicit agricultural perspective. In the following, it should be kept in mind that all types of grasslands have not been equally studied: in the literature, there is currently an over-representation of grazed situations over mown fields and very few studies have been conducted in grasslands characterised by an intensive use of fertilisers and sown species  In grasslands, the defoliation regime (either grazing or mowing for hay making) and the supply of fertilisers appear as the main management practices affecting vegetation structure and functioning. The quantitative assessment of the impacts of defoliation is relatively difficult to characterise (cf.  Although the assessment of nutrient limitation could theoretically be done through soil measurements, there is currently no simple method to assess the amount of nutrients a given soil can release and make available to plants. This has led to the development of nutrient indices for nitrogen and phosphorus  The traits of species that respond to management practices in grasslands are the same as those responding to the same selective pressures in non-managed areas. For example, leaf traits such as SLA or LDMC are strongly modulated by nutrient availability  A recent meta-analysis examined whether the welldocumented negative effect of land use intensification on species richness results in a similar decline in the FD of plant communities  A trait-based approach to grassland management also appears to be promising. In particular, biomass production, the date of peak production and the digestibility of herbage can be predicted from leaf traits and/or plant height  Other functions of grasslands can also be deduced from trait values. For example, in Australia, the role of grasslands to limit soil erosion has been negatively related to traits determining high production, achieved there by reduced plant cover with low persistence  A major question for research is to define which practices may favour the constancy of ecosystem processes of grasslands under global changes. This challenge is of importance knowing that a significant number of traditional 'stress-tolerant' grassland species have been replaced over the last century by more ruderal species with faster growth and shorter life span  
 Over the last decades, the weed flora had dramatically changed in response to shift in management practices. On the one hand, new rules for integrated weed management aiming at reducing the use of herbicides and preserving the biodiversity of agroecosystems is currently leading to the emergence of more diverse communities. On the other hand, there are still highly specialised crops in which a specialised weed flora occurs in response to specific techniques and pesticide use. Since a decrease in the use of herbicides is likely to occur in such systems for both technical and social reasons  Major variations in weed composition between fields are associated with human management factors: current crop type, preceding crop type, soil pH and texture, land drainage  New flora responding to current change in management can be characterised using the same set of traits as those measured on spontaneous vegetation  The different flora found under contrasted weed management also differ in FD: the reduction of FD in intensive cropping systems may occur through increased specialisation rather than by further enhanced spread of the most generalist species  Combining weed and crop characteristics is a further step to assess the impact of the FD of the weed-crop community on EP. Weed size relative to that of the crop is a major parameter impacting final crop yield in cropweed models (e.g.  Weeds can also have an impact on the local biodiversity. In extensively managed areas, the diversity of the local weed flora has been shown to correlate negatively with herbivore load and outbreaks of pests and positively with number of non-pest invertebrate species  
 The utility of traits for forest management in temperate areas has not been clearly established yet, as most forests are composed of one or a few species, taken among a set of approximately ten well-known species. The recent emphasis on other services than biomass production (regulation of climate and flood, support for biogeochemical cycles and biodiversity, supplying of recreational values, etc.), which cannot be achieved through traditionally managed forests, initiated the proposal of more 'nature-orientated' management. This on-going change is characterised by the increasing importance of natural regeneration that can lead to the establishment of mixed forests. As a consequence, future management of forests will require knowledge on species different from the original set, in order to predict successful establishment and biomass production of mixed stands. The identification of traits linked to the successful establishment of mixed forests from natural regeneration is an on-going effort and shows that shade tolerance detected by wood density and SLA are probably of major importance (Janse-ten  The recent damages caused to forests by extreme climatic events such as storms and severe droughts demonstrate the urgent need for large comparisons of species according to functions which have not been characterised so far. The identification of relevant and easily measured traits related to drought, wind tolerance and root anchorage that could be used to monitor routine selection of species appears as an important research need in this respect  The likely increasing importance of mixed forests and the search for higher resistance to disturbances  7 Trait databases and ecoinformatics 
 The methodology of screening for traits, which takes its roots in the seminal work by  Although these data sets constitute an invaluable wealth for the scientific community as a whole, their compatibility, accessibility and further dissemination remain problematic. Some data sets are available as appendices to original publications (e.g. the Glopnet data set:  
 This issue as applied to traits falls under the broader perspective of what is now called 'ecoinformatics', defined as 'a field of research and development focused on the interface between ecology, computer science, and information technology' and considered as the new bioinformatics  Metadata may be defined as 'information about data', i.e. the information required to understand data, including data set contents, context, structure and accessibility  A second aspect concerns the development of core and specialised ontologies, a key step in the formalisation of concepts in a particular field of research. In the information sciences, ontology is a formal model of knowledge covering a specified discipline in which (1) each element (e.g. field name or column in a database) is precisely defined and (2) each possible relationship between data elements is parameterised or constrained  This whole approach to data management constitutes a first step towards the long-term objective of ecological data integration and sharing through the development of information systems comparable to those currently used for gene sequences and protein data (GenBank, EMBL) or taxonomic diversity (GBIF:  
 In this review, we have highlighted a number of strengths of the trait-based approach to address questions pertaining to plant and ecosystem functioning, community dynamics and species distribution in ecological contexts and some selected agronomical situations. Although the focus was on plants, there is now increasing recognition that traits might be useful tools to address questions relative to other organisms as well, be they invertebrate or vertebrate animals (cf.  Several types of factors were decisive to the major breakthroughs in plant trait research that have taken place over the past 15 years. First, the imperious need to predict changes in vegetation in response to global change drivers has triggered the search for simplification of floristic complexity; second, the identification of a small set of easily measured traits relevant to plant functioning and distribution that could be measured on a wide array of species and situations worldwide was decisive; third, a set of consistent concepts and hypotheses allowing us to scale from the individual to higher levels of organisation proved very powerful; fourth, the design of protocols to measure traits in a standardised way and the recognition that sharing data and information among scientists working in different systems were essential to progress. Challenges ahead to trait-based research pertain to a number of aspects. In terms of plant functioning, whether, e.g. further axes of variation can be detected in plants, including some involving root dimensions and whether any easily measured traits can be related to the various aspects of the regeneration niche (sensu  The prospects to apply a comparative approach based on traits in the field of agronomy are wide. Intensive agricultural systems, where crop diversity is reduced to one or very few species that are generally genetically homogeneous and where external inputs are often supplied in large quantities, are increasingly criticised for their negative environmental impacts  As nicely put by
There are several approaches on how to enhance agricultural yields, ranging from expanding into new land to increasing the yield per hectare via higher input use or genetic modification or increasing the output per unit of inputs such as water, nitrogen or phosphorus  Today, most food and agriculture experts agree that food production will have to increase substantially by 2050  The relationship between agricultural intensification, natural resources management and socio-economic development is complex, as production activities impact heavily on natural resources with serious health and environmental implications. When the petroleum dependence and the ecological risks of industrial agriculture are accounted for, serious questions about the social, economic and environmental sustainability of certain agricultural strategies arise  Unless the footprints of agriculture are carefully reduced through improved agroecological management, both agricultural systems and remaining natural ecosystems will suffer further degradation, thus increasing the proportion of the world's species threatened with extinction and further limiting the ecosystem services provided by agriculture for humankind  Therefore, a key challenge for the future in the management of agroecosystems lies in increasing the efficiency of resource use in order to ensure increased production and conservation of biodiversity and scarce natural resources, while building in resilience in agroecosystems in the face of increasing climate-related hazards, biotic stresses and economic shocks  
 In his report to the UN Human Rights Council, the UN Special Rapporteur on the right to food stated that in order to take effective measures towards the realization of the right to food, food systems must ensure the availability of food for everyone, warning, however, that increasing food production to meet future needs, while necessary, is not sufficient. The report stressed the fact that agriculture must develop in ways that increase the incomes of smallholders and of poor consumers as hunger is caused not by low food stocks but by poverty. It also emphasized that agriculture must not compromise its ability to satisfy future needs by undermining biodiversity and the natural resource base. The report highlights the potential of agroecology as the best approach to move towards the realization of the right to adequate food in its different dimensions: availability, accessibility, adequacy, sustainability and participation (de Schutter 2010). Although there is no consensus on a particular definition of sustainable agriculture, promoting a new agricultural production paradigm in order to ensure the production of abundant, healthy and affordable food for an increasing human population is an urgent and unavoidable task. This challenge will have to be met using environmentally friendly and socially equitable technologies and methods, in a world with a shrinking arable land base (which is also being diverted to produce biofuels), with less and more expensive petroleum, increasingly limited supplies of water and nitrogen and within a scenario of a rapidly changing climate, social unrest and economic uncertainty  1 , Funes-Monzote, 2009). To transform agricultural production so that it not only produces abundant food but also becomes a major contributor to global biodiversity conservation and a continuing source of redistributive ecosystem and socio-economic services is unquestionably a key endeavour for both scientists and farmers in the second decade of the 21st century  
 Several sustainable agriculture standard-setting initiatives are under way aiming at establishing a comprehensive, continuous improvement framework with a common set of economic, environmental and social metrics to determine whether an agricultural system is being managed in a sustainable manner (e.g. the sustainable agriculture standard of the Leonardo  The idea behind establishing a set of agronomic, ecological, social, economic and environmental standards is that if contracted producers follow such standards they should be able to promote a more efficient agriculture, biodiversity conservation and benefit their communities. The use of the standards and the auditing of such standards should foster best management practices that support sustainability and resilience. Compliance is evaluated by audits conducted by authorized inspection and/or certification bodies that measure the degree of the farm's conformity to the environmental and social norms indicated in the standard's criteria. As a tool the method is useful for companies and associated farmers interested in mitigating environmental and social risks caused by their agricultural activities through a process that motivates continual improvement, as well as provide a measure of each farm's social and environmental performance and best management practices. For example, the Rainforest Alliance (2007) developed a series of standards that cover the environmental, social, labour and agronomic management of farms. The Rainforest Alliance certification is built on the three pillars of sustainability: environmental protection, social equity and economic viability. Among the trends expected in tropical farms that follow the standards are less soil erosion, pollution and waste, enhanced habitat for wildlife, reduced threats to human health and improved conditions for farm workers. Recently, Conservation International and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation convened a workshop to create a network for the global monitoring of agriculture, ecosystem services and livelihoods. The goal of the network will be to provide a system for integrated measurement and analysis of agriculture's human well-being and environmental outcomes to ensure that agricultural development is sustainable (Conservation International 2011). They proposed a group of three types of metric and synthetic indicators to be used during the agricultural intensification process: (1) a set of indicators to identify areas suitable either for intensification or for ecosystem services; (2) indicators to assess the performance of the intensification process; (3) situational awareness indicators to capture the different dimensions of impact of intensification. An apparent drawback of this proposal is that it identifies intensification (increase the production per area via the efficient use of inputs) as the only agricultural path for agricultural production, disregarding the diversity of other agroecological approaches that, instead of intensification, emphasize diversification, synergies and recycling. The methodology also creates a dichotomy between areas for agriculture and areas for nature, ignoring the fact that there are forms of agriculture (notably smallholder diversified farms) that simultaneously produce food and conserve biodiversity and associated ecosystem services  While such principles and standards are of great importance for assessing the sustainability of agricultural operations, groups engaged in such processes have encountered great difficulty in arriving at agreement on criteria, let alone standards; therefore, a number of shortcomings persist and the application of standards remains rather limited. Some people believe that the imposition of general and rigid standards that may not fit within the specificities of each agricultural region can actually inhibit the diversity of agricultural production approaches and be counterproductive to the evolution of sustainable agriculture. Others argue that the science underpinning such an audit is still not in place. Another problem with many certification schemes is that they judge the farmer rather than the technologies promoted and in most cases it leaves the costs of remediation and conversion to the farmers to meet the certification standards while the enterprises usually continue paying the same prices for products. Many farmers linked to local and regional markets, constrained by standards tailored for export agriculture, have opted for other types of certification programmes, such as the participatory certification of the Rede Ecovida in southern Brazil (Dos  
 There are many competing visions on how to achieve new models of a biodiverse, resilient, productive and resource-efficient agriculture that humanity desperately needs in the immediate future. Conservation (no or minimum tillage) agriculture, sustainable intensification production, transgenic crops, organic agriculture and agroecological systems are some of the proposed approaches, each claiming to serve as the durable foundation for a sustainable food production strategy. Although the goals of all approaches may be similar, technologies-proposed (highversus low-input) methodologies (farmer led versus market driven) and scales (large-scale monocultures versus biodiverse small farms) are quite different and often antagonistic. With more than a billion hungry people on the planet and future climate and economic disruptions immanent, there is an urgent need for the entire development community to work together to design and scale up truly sustainable agricultural systems. A starting point is to agree on the basic attributes that a sustainable production system should exhibit. Criteria derived from the extensive literature on agroecology and sustainable agriculture suggest a series of attributes (Table  1 ) that any agricultural system should exhibit in order to be considered sustainable  1 . Basic attributes of sustainable agricultural systems. 1. Use of local and improved crop varieties and livestock breeds so as to enhance genetic diversity and enhance adaptation to changing biotic and environmental conditions 2. Avoid the unnecessary use of agrochemical and other technologies that adversely impact on the environment and on human health (e.g. heavy machineries, transgenic crops, etc.) 3. Efficient use of resources (nutrients, water, energy, etc.), reduced use of non-renewable energy and reduced farmer dependence on external inputs 4. Harness agroecological principals and processes such as nutrient cycling, biological nitrogen fixation, allelopathy, biological control via promotion of diversified farming systems and harnessing functional biodiversity 5. Making productive use of human capital in the form of traditional and modern scientific knowledge and skills to innovate and the use of social capital through recognition of cultural identity, participatory methods and farmer networks to enhance solidarity and exchange of innovations and technologies to resolve problems 6. Reduce the ecological footprint of production, distribution and consumption practices, thereby minimizing GHG emissions and soil and water pollution 7. Promoting practices that enhance clean water availability, carbon sequestration, conservation of biodiversity, soil and water conservation, etc. 8. Enhanced adaptive capacity based on the premise that the key to coping with rapid and unforeseeable change is to strengthen the ability to adequately respond to change to sustain a balance between longterm adaptability and short-term efficiency 9. Strengthen adaptive capacity and resilience of the farming system by maintaining agroecosystem diversity, which not only allows various responses to change, but also ensures key functions on the farm 10. Recognition and dynamic conservation of agricultural heritage systems that allows social cohesion and a sense of pride and promote a sense of belonging and reduce migration services beyond the production of food, including recycling of nutrients, regulation of microclimate and local hydrological processes, suppression of undesirable organisms, detoxification of noxious chemicals, etc. (Figure  2 ). Because biodiversity-mediated renewal processes and ecological services are largely biological, their persistence depends on the maintenance of biological integrity and diversity in agroecosystems. Traditional farmers as well as a generation of agroecologists offer a wide array of management options and designs that enhance functional biodiversity in crop fields  Another way of exploring the potential sustainability of particular agricultural interventions in addressing pressing concerns is to establish a set of questions (Table  2 ) that examine whether or not current management practices are contributing to sustainable livelihoods by improving natural, human, social, physical and financial capital. In this regard, many organizations (notably the International Fund for Agricultural Development and UK's Overseas Development Institute) have promoted the sustainable livelihoods approach. This tool provides an analytical framework that promotes systematic analysis of the underlying processes and causes of poverty, food insecurity and environmental degradation. Although it is not the only such framework, its advantages are that it focuses attention on people's own definitions of poverty, food security, etc. and takes into account a wide range of factors that cause or contribute to community problems. These are shown schematically in a framework that identifies the state of the capitals, the threats and the livelihood outcomes, enabling multiple stakeholder perspectives to be taken into account in the identification of practical priorities for action to confront the threats and enhance the capitals  
 Agricultural systems -even the most traditional ones -are not static systems; in fact they are constantly changing over time. The major forces that shape current agricultural changes are: population increase and dynamics, global market forces, investment in agriculture and rural sector, important advances in science and technology, climatic change and variability, consumer demands, agricultural subsidies and the pressures from social movements demanding food sovereignty, land reform and poverty reduction. Only food and agricultural policies and practices that are capable of responding adequately to these forces have the possibility of being sustainable in a rapidly changing world. The design of agroecosystems that exhibit many of the attributes of sustainability (see Table  1 ) has become a leading objective of scientific research and policy agendas, while their performance assessment remains an important challenge. Many authors have developed methods to evaluate the ecological, economic and social sustainability of particular forms of agriculture at the farm level, estimating the productivity, stability, resilience and adaptability of particular production systems  How does a given strategy impact on the overall sustainability of the natural resource management system? What is the appropriate approach to explore the economic, environmental and social dimensions of farming systems? How can the sustainability of an agroecosystem be evaluated? These are unavoidable questions faced by scientists and development practitioners dealing with complex agroecosystems in a rapidly changing world. At the farm level a major task is to identify indicators that signal performance or specific management problems or identify undesirable environmental changes and what action to take. The focus is on changing practices at the farm scale in a way likely to improve overall farm health  The Indicator-based Framework for Evaluation of Natural Resource Management Systems (MESMIS) proposes an integrated interdisciplinary approach to assess sustainability of farming systems  (1) Sustainability of natural resource management systems is defined by seven general attributes: productivity, stability, reliability, resilience, adaptability, equity and self-reliance. (  2 ) The assessment is only valid for a management system in a given geographical location, spatial scale (e.g. parcel, production unit, community, etc.) and determined in a time period. (  3 ) It is a participatory process requiring an interdisciplinary evaluation team. The evaluation team usually includes outsiders and local participants. (  4 ) Sustainability is not measured per se, but is measured through the comparison of two or more systems. The comparison is made either cross-sectionally (e.g. comparing an alternative and a reference system at the same time) or longitudinally (e.g. by analysing the evolution of a system over time). Using MESMIS,  3 , an AMOEBA-type diagram is used to show, in qualitative terms, how far the objective has been reached for each indicator by giving the percentage of the actual value with respect to the ideal value (reference value). This enables a simple yet comprehensive comparison of the advantages and limitations of the two systems being evaluated and compared, suggesting weak points that may need improvement. Indicators can also be grouped according to their relevance to the state of the social, economic and natural capital of each farming system being evaluated. The asymmetry of the AMOEBA indicates the extent to which each farming system lacks sustainability or in which aspects each capital is weak. An analysis of the weak points can lead to suggestions of the kinds of interventions necessary to improve the performance of the system. By comparing AMOEBAS from several farming systems, lessons from one location may be transferred to another. Also reconstructing the AMOEBAS in each farm, every year after agroecological interventions, can indicate whether progress is being made towards or away from sustainability. 
 Most agricultural scientists and developers agree on the need to design an agriculture that respects the limits of the local/regional natural resources, including the capacity to provide ecological services  As discussed above, although numerous indicators of sustainability exist, very few of them suggest and monitor threshold phenomena. Thresholds can be defined as non-linear transitions in the functioning of human-managed systems, such as crop disease epidemics occurring in large areas caused by anthropogenic interventions (i.e. planting large-scale monocultures of a narrow genetic base;  Borrowing from the concept of planetary boundaries developed by Rockstro ¨m et al.  One of the few methodologies available that specify threshold levels for selected indicators is that described by  3  provides values derived from an evaluation of 10 farms in Cebu, Philippines. The individual farm values for an indicator are compared with the threshold, where meeting an indicator's threshold receives a score of one. Only farms that exhibit average rating of more than 1.0 for farmer satisfaction and resource conservation are considered to be sustainable. Thus, in Farm 5, frequency of crop failure is below the threshold but yield and income are high enough to compensate for this deficiency; however, this ability to compensate is allowable only among indicators of the same index (i.e. within farmer satisfaction) but not across. Thus, excess in yield or income cannot compensate for deficiencies in soil depth and organic matter. 
 As explained above, the idea is to identify a set of thresholds that any agricultural production strategy must meet beyond which unsustainable trends caused by the farming systems and associated An average rating of more than 1.0 for farmer satisfaction and resource conservation is required for a farm to be sustainable  technologies would lead to tipping-point phenomena. For example, it may be argued that transgenic crops can enhance productivity and reduce agrochemical loads. But can it do so by emitting less greenhouse gases (GHGs), without eroding soils or reducing genetic diversity, etc. under allowed threshold values? Others may argue that while organic farming may conserve biodiversity and natural resources and tends to be carbon neutral, it may not yield enough to produce an abundant food supply. Estimates of the economic, social and ecological consequences of transgressing a threshold would suggest that the agricultural strategy should not be deployed and would force the farmers, organization or enterprise promoting the strategy to refine the production system or technology so that when deployed its impacts remain within the acceptable threshold bounds. A threshold-based assessment approach can (a) provide early warnings of impending damages or losses in the healthfulness of the socio-ecological system before a threshold is surpassed, (b) monitor actual system changes once the technology is deployed and (c) suggest alternatives on how the launched technologies can remain within the established thresholds. As depicted in Figure  4 , in order for an agricultural strategy to fit within the Green Agriculture criteria, it must contain the basic requirements of a viable and durable agricultural system capable of confronting the challenges of the 21st century while carrying out its productive goals within certain limits in terms of environmental impact, land degradation levels, input and energy use, GHG emissions, etc. Defined threshold indicators are site or region specific; thus their values will change according to prevailing environmental and socio-economic conditions. In the same region, threshold value ranges may be the same for an intensive large-scale system and a lowinput small-scale system as yields will be measured per unit of GHG emitted, per unit of energy or water used, per unit of N leached, etc. Systems that surpass the threshold levels will not be considered sustainable and therefore will require modifications. Much of the uncertainty in quantifying thresholds is due to a lack of scientific knowledge about the nature of the biophysical thresholds themselves, the intrinsic uncertainty of how complex systems behave, the ways in which other biophysical processes such as feedback mechanisms interact with the primary control variable and uncertainty regarding the allowed time of overshoot of a critical control variable in the system before a threshold is crossed  Thresholds can also be established by examining whether the proposed technologies or agricultural systems reach the basic requirements of food, energy and technological sovereignty. Food sovereignty is the right of everyone to have access to safe, nutritious and culturally appropriate food in sufficient quantity and quality to sustain a healthy life with full human dignity. Similarly, energy sovereignty is the right for all people to have access to sufficient energy within ecological limits from appropriate sustainable sources for a dignified life. Technological sovereignty refers to the capacity to achieve the other two forms of sovereignty by nurturing the environmental services derived from existing agrobiodiversity and using locally available resources. A household, community or region could be called sovereign if it meets the threshold levels established in a participatory manner for each type of sovereignty, as illustrated by a hypothetical example depicted in Figure  5 . Arriving at agreed values among all stakeholders may prove difficult, and values will vary from one community to another. Nevertheless, the method provides a framework for rural communities to determine the minimum acceptable values for food production, biodiversity conservation, energy efficiency, etc., allowing them to assess whether or not they are advancing towards a basic state of food, energy and technological sovereignty. There is an urgent need to assess how well society is doing at increasing agricultural production while simultaneously conserving biodiversity and associated ecosystem services in an era of climate change, energy costs and financial instability. There are a number of analytical tools proposed for estimating agricultural, environmental, economic and social indicators as well as thresholds. The challenge is to arrive at a consensus on the set of metrics and the institutional mechanisms to be used in the auditing of various production systems and/or technologies being proposed or deployed by major international and national organizations (private or public). Whatever the agreed upon mechanisms, only those styles of agriculture that meet the established threshold criteria and that advance communities towards food, energy and technological sovereignty would then be considered as a Green Agriculture system. Such systems then should be scaled up given their capacity for producing enough food while providing ecosystem services within the climatic, energetic, ecological and economic limitations of the next two decades or so.
When grown under optimum conditions, plant species from fertile, productive habitats tend to have inherently higher relative growth rates (RGR) than species from less favourable environments. Under these conditions, fast-growing species produce relatively more leaf area and less root mass, which greatly contributes to their larger carbon gain per unit plant weight. They have a higher rate of photosynthesis per unit leaf dry weight and per unit leaf nitrogen, but not necessarily per unit leaf area, due to their higher leaf area per unit leaf weight. Fast-growing species also have higher respiration rates per unit organ weight, due to demands of a higher RGR and higher rate of nutrient uptake. However, expressed as a fraction of the total amount of carbon fixed per day, they use less in respiration. Fast-growing species have a greater capacity to acquire nutrients, which is likely to be a consequence, rather than the cause, of their higher RGR. There is no evidence that slow-growing species have a special ability to acquire nutrients from dilute solutions, but they may have special mechanisms to release nutrients when these are sparingly soluble. We have analysed variation in morphological, physiological, chemical and allocation characteristics underlying variation in RGR, to arrive at an appraisal of its ecological significance. When grown under optimum conditions, fast-growing species contain higher concentrations of organic nitrogen and minerals. The lower specific leaf area (SLA) of slowgrowing species is at least partly due to the relatively high concentration of cell-wall material and quantitative secondary compounds, which may protect against detrimental abiotic and biotic factors. As a consequence of a greater investment in protective compounds or structures, the rate of photosynthesis per unit leaf dry weight is less, but leaf longevity is increased. In short-term experiments with a limiting nutrient availability the RGR of all species is reduced, but potentially fast-growing species still grow faster than inherently slow-growing ones. Therefore, the absence of fast-growing species from infertile environments cannot be explained by their growth rate per se. The higher leaf longevity diminishes nutrient losses and is a factor contributing to the success in nutrient-limited habitats. We postulate that natural selection for traits which are advantageous under nutrient-limited conditions has led to the low growth potential of species from infertile and some other unfavourable habitats. Other examples indicating that selection for traits which allow successful performance under adverse conditions inevitably leads to a lower potential RGR are included. We conclude that it is likely that there are trade-offs between growth potential and performance under adverse conditions, but that current ecophysiological information explaining variation in RGR is too limited to support this contention quantitatively. 
 Plants are distributed over a wide range of habitats varying from tundra to rain forests, from wetlands to deserts and from lowland to alpine regions. Coping with such contrasting, sometimes extreme, environments requires a certain degree of inherent specialization. One of the characteristics in which species of different habitats vary is their growth potential. Plants growing on nutrient-poor soils have a lower growth rate than those on fertile soils. But even when grown under optimum conditions, species which naturally occur on nutrient-poor soils still have a lower growth rate compared to plants characteristic of fertile sites (e.g.  1 ). In addition, species or ecotypes which naturally occur in shaded environments  This close association between a species' growth potential and the quality of its natural habitat raises two questions. First, how are the differences in growth rate between species brought about? And, second, what ecological advantage is conferred by a plant's growth potential? These two questions are in fact closely related. A plant is a complex of organs with contrasting functions and subject to conflicting demands. A low or a high potential growth rate may either be the basis or a by-product of adaptation to a certain set of environmental conditions. Hence there may be trade-offs between adaptation to adverse conditions and growth Figure  1  The relationship between the RGR of nine herbaceous C 3 species and the nitrogen index of the species' habitat according to  Numerous plant characters contribute to a plant's absolute growth rate in its natural habitat, e.g. seed size, germination time, or plant size after overwintering. In this chapter we restrict ourselves to an analysis of the different traits that contribute to a plant's relative growth rate and discuss mechanisms which cause variation in any of these traits. We will treat the possible interdependence of various characteristics and try to quantify the importance of each of these in explaining interspecific variation in relative growth rate. Finally, we discuss the ecological implications of interspecific differences in the various traits and in the growth rate itself. 
 Growth analysis is often used as a tool to obtain insight into the functioning of a plant. Different types of analyses exist, depending on what is considered a key factor for growth (cf.  1  for a list of abbreviations), the rate of increase in plant weight per unit of plant weight already present, is then factorized into two components, the leaf area ratio and the net assimilation rate  2  for a range of published values). The leaf area ratio (LAR) is the amount of leaf area per unit total plant weight. The net assimilation rate (NAR) is defined as the rate of increase in plant weight per unit leaf area. Thus: RGR ¼ LAR Â NAR ð1Þ LAR and NAR can both be divided into a further set of components. The LAR is the product of the specific leaf area (SLA), the amount of leaf area per unit leaf weight, and the leaf weight ratio (LWR), the fraction of the total plant biomass allocated to leaves. Thus: LAR ¼ SLA Â LWR ð2Þ Although termed the morphological component, LAR is affected by biomass allocation, chemical composition and leaf anatomy, as will be discussed later. The NAR is the net result of dry weight gain and dry weight losses and is largely the balance of the rate of photosynthesis, expressed per unit leaf area (PS), and the rate of leaf respiration (LR), stem respiration (SR) and root respiration (RR), in this case also per unit leaf area. If these physiological processes are expressed in moles of carbon, the net balance of photosynthesis and respiration has to be divided by CC, the carbon concentration of the newly formed material, to obtain the increase in dry weight. The balance is completed by subtracting losses due to volatilization (VOL) and exudation (EXU) per unit time, also expressed on a leaf area basis. Thus: where subscript a indicates that the rates are expressed on a leaf area basis. However, leaf, stem and root respiration are not expected to be directly related to leaf area, but rather to the biomass of the different organs. Equation (  3 ) is therefore extended to include the relations between organ biomass and leaf area:   4 ) it is clear that NAR is not purely a physiological component, as it is often termed, but rather a complex intermingling of a plant's physiology, biomass allocation, chemical composition and leaf area formation. Although NAR is relatively easy to determine, it is not the most appropriate parameter to obtain a clear insight into the relation between physiology and growth. Hence, we rewrite Eqs. (  1 ) and (4) into: NAR ¼ ðPS a À LR a À SR a À RR a Þ CC À EXU a À VOL a ð3Þ NAR ¼ 1 CC PS a ÀLR w Á 1 SLA ÀSR w Á SWR LAR ÀRR w Á RWR LAR À EXU a À VOL a ð4Þ RGR ¼ ðPS a ÂSLAÂLWRÀLR w Â LWR À SR w Â SWR À RR w Â RWRÞ CC À EXU w À VOL w ð5Þ where EXU and VOL are expressed per unit total plant weight. When plants are in a steady state, i.e. when there is a fixed ratio between the increment of nutrients (e.g. nitrogen) and biomass, growth can also be considered in relation to the acquisition of such nutrients; RGR ¼ RWR Â NIR PNC ð6Þ where NIR is the net rate of nitrogen absorption, the rate of nitrogen taken up per unit root weight, and PNC the total plant nitrogen concentration. Factorizing RGR in its various components does not imply that these components are independent of each other  
 A wealth of information is available on the comparison of growth of two or three species, but few authors have investigated the relation between RGR and growth parameters for a range of species.  3 . On average, a 10% increase in RGR is associated with an 7.5% increase in LAR and a 2.4% increase in NAR. Thus, the amount of leaf area a plant realizes Means of a compilation of 78 literature references on comparative growth analyses of herbaceous C 3 species. For each reference a linear regression was carved out with the mean of variable A for each species as the independent variable, and the mean of variable B over the experimental period as the dependent variable. Then the change in the predicted value of variable B associated with a 10% change in variable A was calculated, starting from the mean values of A and B. A value close to 10 indicates that a 10% increase in variable A, is associated with an almost equal increase in variable B, whereas a value close to zero indicates no association. Such an analysis is only fruitful provided the differences in variable A are large enough. Therefore, the degree of association was only calculated for pairs of variables in which the smallest and largest value of variable A differed at least 10% and 20 mg g À1 day À1 (RGR), 10% and 2 m 2 kg À1 (LAR), 10% and 3 m 2 kg À1 (SLA) and 10% (LWR). The values for all references were then averaged. The literature references are those given in Table  2E  of  2C , the sun species of Table  2D   
 
 with a given total plant weight is an important factor determining the potential growth rate of a plant. Differences in the rate of dry weight gain per unit leaf area are of secondary importance in explaining interspecific variation in RGR. These generalizations only apply when the same types of plants are compared, e.g. C 3 herbs or trees. Tree species, when compared with herbs, have both a low LAR and a low NAR. C 4 species tend to have a higher RGR due to a higher NAR, when compared with C 3 species. The relatively low RGR of shade-adapted species, grown at a high quantum flux density, is caused by a low NAR, rather than a low LAR  On average, a 10% increase in LAR is associated with a 4.3% decrease in NAR (Table  3 ). This is not as expected, because a high LAR decreases the respiratory burden per unit leaf area-see Eq. (  4 ). In a few cases, this discrepancy may have been caused by the lower photosynthesis and NAR, resulting from self-shading in plants with a high LAR and a correspondingly large leaf area. However, in most cases it will be due to less well-defined interactions between the physiology, allocation, anatomy and chemical composition  5 )). 
 As outlined in Section IV, variation in RGR is strongly correlated with that in LAR. Differences in LAR can be due to variation in LWR or in SLA. The specific leaf area is defined as the amount of leaf area per unit leaf weight. Its reciprocal, specific leaf weight or specific leaf mass, is also frequently used. Various aspects of inherent and environmentally induced variation in SLA have been reviewed by  2 ). Evergreens mostly have a low SLA, whereas species with mesomorphic leaves show higher SLAs.  3 ). SLA can therefore be considered as the prime factor determining interspecific variation in RGR. 
 Which traits determine inherent variation in SLA? Starting from a simple leaf prototype, with chlorenchyma, vascular tissue and an epidermis, variation in SLA can be brought about by a change in several leaf characteristics. Firstly, a purely chemical difference between leaves may occur, due to accumulation of, for example, starch or secondary compounds. Starch may account for up to 30-40% of total leaf dry weight  2  (A) The relationship between specific leaf area (SLA) and RGR and (B) the relationship between the leaf weight ratio (LWR) and RGR for the nine species described in Figure  1 .  Secondly, a lower SLA may be caused by anatomical differences, e.g. extra layers of palisade parenchyma in sun species as opposed to shade species  Thirdly, variation in SLA can be caused by a difference in investment in leaf hairs, thorns, etc. In two Espeletia species, leaf hairs comprise 4 and 20%, respectively, of the total leaf biomass  Thus, in general, inherent variation in SLA is not merely caused by a difference in the amount of leaf cells per unit area, but also by variation in leaf anatomy, morphology or chemical composition. These differences in anatomy or morphology will also affect the chemical composition, as each of the above-mentioned anatomical and morphological structures has a distinctive chemical composition (cf.  
 Plants grown under a low quantum flux density generally have a higher SLA and thinner leaves  Plants grown at low nutrient availability either show no change  
 Biomass allocation can be defined in terms of leaf, stem and root weight ratio, the fraction of total plant biomass allocated to leaves, stems and roots, respectively. A more frequently used parameter, the shoot: root ratio or its inverse, does not acknowledge the distinct functions of leaves and stems and is avoided here. Various aspects of inherent differences in biomass partitioning between leaves and roots have been discussed by  A. Biomass Allocation at an Optimum Nutrient Supply Some authors have found a negative correlation between LWR and RGR  2B ). Differences in growth conditions may have a decisive impact on the final result  3 ). Interestingly, monocotyledonous herbaceous species invest relatively more biomass in roots and less in leaves, compared to dicotyledonous ones with the same inherent RGR  
 In general, plants grown at a low quantum flux density show a shift in the allocation of biomass from roots and stem to leaves. This shift is generally more pronounced in faster-growing species  A decrease in nutrient availability often decreases LWR and increases RWR, particularly in fast-growing species  
 The simple growth equation: RGR ¼ NAR Â LAR, suggests that any investment in biomass other than leaf area reduces the plant's RGR. Such an approach tends to consider the roots merely as a carbohydrateconsuming organ and does not give credit to their role in the acquisition of nutrients and water or their function in transport, storage and anchorage. In this section we will concentrate on the root's role in the acquisition of ions. Growth can then best be approached from an alternative point of view, where RGR is defined in terms of the root weight ratio (RWR), the net rate of nitrogen acquisition (NIR) and the plant's nitrogen concentration (PNC)-Eq. (  6 ). Equation (  6 ) suggests that a high RGR can be achieved by a large investment in root biomass, by a high rate of nitrogen uptake per unit root weight (specific ion uptake rate), or by a combination of these. However, a large investment in root weight may in fact reduce RGR because investment in leaves is reduced. 
 Root systems of fast-and slow-growing species differ in their architecture. Slow-growing Festuca species from nutrient-poor habitats tend to have ''herringbone'' morphologies, i.e. next to one main axis, the root systems have only primary laterals  At an optimum nutrient supply, inherently fast-growing species have a somewhat lower RWR than slow-growing species from the same life form (Section VI). Since fast-growing species also have a higher nitrate and organic nitrogen concentration (Section VIII.A), it follows that the fastgrowing species must have higher nitrogen absorption rates (cf. Eq. (  6 );  3A ). This is not to say that fast-growing species grow faster because their rate of nitrate or phosphate uptake is higher. Rather, the rapid uptake may be a result of their higher growth rate. At an optimum supply, the rate of ion uptake is, at least partly, determined by ''demand'', which results in a strong negative feedback when the growth rate is low  Is there evidence for an inherently higher affinity (lower K m ) of the uptake system of slow-growing species from nutrient-poor sites? The phosphate uptake system of slow-growing Carex species has a high affinity for phosphate, in comparison with that of crop species  
 As discussed in Section VI, fast-growing species tend to be more plastic with respect to biomass allocation. At a growth-limiting nitrogen supply, inherently fast-growing species have a higher RWR than slow-growing ones of the same life-form. Both a low phosphate supply  Roots of crop species  Plants do not only respond to nutrient-rich patches with an increased root production, but also with an increased capacity for nutrient uptake  Apart from spatial variation in nutrient availability, there may be variation in time.  It is concluded that fast-growing species are characterized by a high degree of plasticity in root morphology, such as the adjustment of their RWR and perhaps also the local proliferation of roots in nutrientrich patches. Such a high degree of morphological plasticity is likely to be an integral part of the mechanism of resource acquisition in productive environments  
 Like leaves, roots are subject to a continuous turnover.  Specialized root structures termed ''proteoid'' roots, are formed on members of the Proteaceae  Another special structure, which allows plants to grow in phosphatepoor environments, is the mycorrhiza, an association between a fungus and roots. Both fast-and slow-growing species have the capacity to form such an association, predominantly under phosphate-poor conditions. Some species are inherently non-mycorrhizal, but this characteristic is also not associated with the inherent growth rate of the species (cf.  
 Variation in RGR between species is certainly associated with variation in root attributes. Slow-growing species tend to have a ''herring bone'' architecture, rather than the more random structure of fast-growing species, and also a higher specific root length. Fast-growing species tend to invest relatively less biomass in roots when grown at an optimum supply of nutrients, but have a greater capacity to adjust their investment in root biomass as well as associated structures than slow-growing species. The nutrient uptake rate per unit root dry weight of fast-growing species is higher than that of slow-growing species, but this may well be an effect of rapid growth, rather than its cause. 
 Plant dry matter is composed of a number of major compounds, which can be grouped into the following seven categories: lipids, lignin, organic N-compounds, (hemi)cellulose, non-structural sugars, organic acids and minerals. Apart from ''primary'' compounds, there is a wealth of ''secondary'' compounds, defined by the absence of a clearly defined role in the metabolic processes of the plant  
 When grown at an optimum nutrient supply, inherently fast-growing species have a higher total and organic nitrogen concentration per unit plant dry weight than slow-growing ones  4A ). Their higher organic nitrogen concentration is due partly to a greater biomass investment in leaves, which tend to have a higher nitrogen concentration than other vegetative plant organs, and partly to a higher nitrogen concentration in all vegetative organs per se  Fast-growing (sub)species generally contain more minerals and organic acids per unit dry weight than slow-growing ones, when grown at an optimum nutrient supply  It is sometimes claimed (cf.  Slow-growing (sub)species contain more cell-wall components (lignin and (hemi)cellulose) than fast-growing ones, when grown at optimum nutrient supply  4C ). In the Lactuca sativa genotypes mentioned above, replacement of nitrate for organic acids partly explains genotypec differences in leaf dry matter content  
 Plants contain a suite of ''secondary'' compounds, which serve a range of distinct ecological functions, including allelopathy, the deterrence of herbivores, attraction of pollinators and attraction of organisms predating on herbivores  Slow-growing species or genotypes accumulate more quantitative secondary plant compounds than fast-growing ones  There is no clear-cut correlation between a plant's inherent growth rate and the concentration of qualitative secondary compounds in its tissues. Perhaps the only generalization that can be made is that fast-growing species, if they have any antiherbivore chemicals at all, accumulate only qualitative compounds. There is a vast array of qualitative secondary compounds, which generally account for less than 1% of the dry weight  Slow-growing species may also accumulate qualitative compounds, often in a manner which complements accumulation of quantitative secondary compounds. A special case is that of young leaves. Most herbivores preferentially feed on leaves with a high protein and water content, a low leaf toughness and a low concentration of antiherbivore compounds  One obvious risk of the accumulation of specific toxins is that herbivorous organisms coevolve and become insensitive to the defence  
 Environmental conditions, such as nutrient supply and water stress, may restrict plant growth more than expected from their effect on photosynthesis. Under such conditions non-structural carbohydrates accumulate, leading to an excess of carbon in the plant. When plants have such an excess of carbon, accumulation of carbon-based defences is expected. Similarly, at a high availability of nutrients and a relatively low quantum flux density, accumulation of nitrogen-based secondary compounds is predicted. Confirmation of this carbon/nutrient balance theory  
 What are the costs associated with the accumulation of antiherbivore compounds? The amount of glucose needed to produce 1 g of a toxic compound may be high (cf.  The glucose needed to produce 1 g of digestibility-reducing compounds is generally lower than that of qualitative secondary compounds  The costs of the accumulation of secondary compounds exceed the specific costs of synthesis. The enzyme apparatus to produce these compounds must also be maintained and there is a turnover of different compounds (e.g. monoterpenes:  An alternative approach to calculate the costs of accumulating secondary compounds relates their concentration to the growth of a plant.  5 ). However, the negative correlation may be a reflection of correlating, but in themselves unrelated, plant characteristics. Accumulation of secondary compounds may even be the phenotypic result of slow growth, as discussed above. 
 At an optimum nutrient supply, fast-growing species have a lower carbon concentration in the various organs than slow-growing ones  4B ). This is a consequence of a difference in chemical composition. The different components of the plant's biomass vary in carbon concentration ranging from high in lipids to zero for minerals (cf. Table  4 ). Therefore, a plant with a high proportion of biomass invested in compounds with a high proportion of carbon, like lipids and protein, has to fix more carbon to construct one unit of plant weight than a plant that consists mainly of (hemi)cellulose, organic acids and minerals (cf. Eq. (  5 ), Section III). The difference in carbon concentration of fast-and slow-growing species is about 10%, whereas that in RGR is over 300% (Figure  4B ). Thus, variation in carbon concentration has only a rather small effect on variation in RGR. Construction of the different compounds not only requires glucose for C-skeletons, but also for the generation of ATP and NAD(P)H (Section X). Generally, compounds with a high carbon concentration are more reduced and require more glucose for their synthesis (Penning de  4D ). There are two reasons for this relative constancy of construction costs. Firstly, the production of protein, which is present in larger amounts in fast-growing species, requires a similar amount of glucose to that of quantitative secondary compounds, characteristic of slow-growing species (Table  4 ; cf. Sections VIII.A and VIII.B). And, secondly, the higher concentration of costly proteins coincides with an increased concentration of cheap compounds, such as organic acids and minerals (cf. Section VIII.A). Table  4  The carbon concentration (mmol/g) of a number of primary and secondary compounds present in plant biomass, as well as the requirement of glucose (mmol g À1 ) and oxygen (mmol g À1 ), and the carbon dioxide release (mmol g À1 ) during synthesis of these compounds from glucose and nitrate. The values for oxygen requirement and carbon dioxide release are used to calculate the expected respiratory quotient (RQ) during synthesis of these compounds. (The principles of the calculations are outlined in Penning de  
 Fast-growing species are characterized by a high organic nitrogen and mineral concentration, whereas slow-growing species accumulate relatively more quantitative secondary compounds, which play a role in reducing herbivory. The cost of constructing leaves with these contrasting chemical composition differs only marginally, but the photosynthetic return per unit weight of the leaves of fast-growing plants will be much higher. 
 A. Species-specific Variation in the Rate of Photosynthesis Fast-growing crop species  Similarly, sun species have a higher rate of light-saturated photosynthesis per unit area than slower-growing shade species, when the plants are grown at an optimum quantum flux density (e.g.  Very little research has been done to elucidate differences in photosynthesis between inherently slow-growing and fast-growing species. Information providing a framework for further analysis of inherent differences in photosynthesis is discussed below and is confined in the main to C 3 species and not C 4 or CAM plants. Variation in photosynthetic capacity may reflect differences in organic nitrogen concentration. This capacity is related to a leaf 's nitrogen concentration, because the major part of all organic nitrogen in the mesophyll cells of a C 3 plant is found in the chloroplasts  
 The rate of photosynthesis per unit leaf nitrogen, the photosynthetic nitrogen use efficiency (PNUE), is higher for fast-growing herbaceous species than for slow-growing ones with the same life form, at least when measured at the moderate quantum flux density at which the plants were grown  With increasing nitrogen concentration per unit leaf area, photosynthesis is saturated at an increasingly higher quantum flux density. If measured at a quantum flux density which saturates photosynthesis at a low, but not at a high nitrogen concentration in the leaf, a curvilinear photosynthesisleaf-nitrogen relationship is inevitable  Measuring photosynthesis at light saturation in field-grown plants,  
 Variation in PNUE might reflect a difference in investment of nitrogen in photosynthetic and non-photosynthetic leaf components. In C 3 species with a high PNUE, approximately 75% of the nitrogen in mesophyll cells is located in the chloroplasts  Leaves with a very thick or multiple epidermis  Similarly, accumulation of relatively large quantities of nitrogencontaining molecules as compatible solutes (e.g. proline and glycinebetaine; Wyn  We conclude that a low PNUE may be a consequence of a large investment of nitrogen in cell walls, specialized cells or compounds that are not associated with photosynthesis. 
 When grown at optimum nitrogen supply, slow-growing herbaceous species have higher chlorophyll concentrations per unit leaf area and unit nitrogen  
 Activation of Rubisco requires carbamylation of the enzyme  
 Variation in PNUE has been further analysed in a comparison of Alocasia macrorrhiza, a tropical understorey plant, with two crop species  The relatively low PNUE of Alocasia is partly a consequence of a relatively low specific activity (carboxylating activity per unit enzyme) of its Rubisco. A low specific activity is not restricted to shade-tolerant or inherently slow-growing species, but has also been found in comparisons of fast-growing crop species  
 Comparing the rate of photosynthesis at normal and high internal partial pressure (p i ) of CO 2 , provides insight into the extent of feedback control of photosynthesis  
 Photosynthesis increases with increasing internal partial pressure of CO 2 inside the leaf (p i ), up to a maximum. Differences in p i between species or populations have been reported  Our own data on a range of herbaceous species grown under the same conditions do not show a correlation between carbon isotope discrimination and RGR (Figure  6B ). In a comparison of species from high altitudes with related species from low altitude, the high-altitude species show less discrimination, which correlates with their lower ratio of p i /p a  6 ) were grown under well-watered conditions and at a relatively low vapour pressure deficit, which may have led to a relatively high p i (cf.  6A, B ). 
 To summarize the above, slow-growing species with a relatively low PNUE may invest relatively large quantities of nitrogen in components not associated with photosynthesis. They may also have a suboptimal distribution of nitrogen between elements of the photosynthetic apparatus or a Rubisco enzyme with a low catalytic capacity. A larger degree of feedback inhibition or a relatively low CO 2 concentration at the site of carboxylation might also play a role. There is as yet no convincing evidence for any of these possible explanations. 
 Use Efficiency and Water Use Efficiency? The leaf 's stomatal conductance tends to be regulated in each a way that a compromise is reached between gain of CO 2 and loss of H 2 O (Farquhar and   In a comparison of five Californian evergreen species,  If there were a general trend in a wider comparison, for species with a low PNUE to have a high WUE, such species are expected to show less discrimination against 13 CO 2  6A, C ) do not support the hypothesis either. Therefore, if such a compromise between PNUE and WUE exists, it can at best be relevant in comparisons of species with similar life form grown at a relatively high quantum flux density and with a high evaporative demand. 
 The photosynthetic capacity decreases with decreasing nitrogen concentration in the leaf, in a (curvi)linear fashion  Curvilinearity of the photosynthetic capacity vs. leaf nitrogen relationship can be interpreted as a relatively inefficient use of nitrogen for photosynthesis at a high nitrogen concentration in the leaf and as such might be expected to occur particularly in slow-growing species adapted to nutrient-poor soils. Indeed, at high N-supply the PNUE of slow-growing species is lower than at high N-supply. A similar tendency, though not as strong, has also been observed for fast-growing species, so that the PNUE of plants grown at a low N-supply is rather similar for fast-and slow-growing species  When plants are grown at a low quantum flux density, their leaves have a lower photosynthetic capacity (e.g.  
 From the above discussion it transpires that slow-growing species have a relatively low PNUE, when grown at optimum nitrogen supply. As yet, there is no satisfactory explanation for this difference. At the low N-supply which the slow-growing species encounter in their natural habitat, the PNUE of fast-and slow-growing species is rather similar. A further appreciation of the ecological advantage, if any, associated with a low PNUE, clearly awaits more information on the physiological, biochemical or anatomical background of the variation in PNUE and possible negative correlations of PNUE with WUE. 
 Respiration provides the driving force for three major energy-requiring processes: maintenance, growth and ion uptake. Maintenance respiration is mainly associated with turnover of various cellular components and the conservation of solute gradients across membranes. Growth respiration is used to supply ATP and NADH, needed to convert glucose into the different chemical compounds. In roots, respiratory energy is also needed for the absorption of nutrients from the environment. 
 Fast-growing species have a higher rate of nitrate uptake (Figure  3A ) and a higher RGR. Therefore, it is not surprising that they have a higher rate of shoot and root respiration  3B ). However, the rate of root respiration of fast-growing species is not as high as would be expected from their higher RGR and NIR. Using data of  3B , regression line through data points). Why do the fast-growing species respire at a rate which is so much lower than expected from their RGR and NIR? 
 The relatively low rate of respiration of fast-growing species might be due to a relatively more efficient respiration. Apart from the cytochrome pathway, which yields three molecules of ATP per oxygen atom reduced, plants have an alternative, non-phosphorylating respiratory pathway. Engagement of this path, rather than the cytochrome path, yields only one third as much ATP  The rate of ATP production per oxygen consumed might also be higher in fast-growing species if their mitochondria operate under substrate limitation or further away from ''state 4''conditions. (State 4 is the condition where the respiration is strongly restricted by the availability of ADP, as opposed to state 3, where ADP is available in saturating amounts.) If so, they do not produce ATP whilst still reducing oxygen (cf.  
 The current data provide no indication that fast-growing species produce ATP more efficiently than slow-growing ones. Therefore, it is very likely that the relatively low respiration rate of fast-growing species is caused by lower specific respiratory costs for energy-requiring processes, such as maintenance, growth or ion acquisition, at least under optimum growth conditions. We have very little information on the biochemistry and physiology of ''maintenance processes''. Protein turnover and the maintenance of solute gradients are considered major components (Penning de  In the case of growth respiration, the construction costs per unit biomass may vary with the chemical composition of the plant. Table  4  provides information on the gas exchange which could be expected to occur with the synthesis of a range of primary and secondary compounds. The calculated oxygen uptake and carbon dioxide release include gas exchange associated with ATP production, (de)carboxylating reactions,. as well as the use of oxygen in reactions catalysed by such enzymes as mixed function oxygenases. We calculated that the oxygen requirement for the synthesis of roots of fast-growing species is higher than that for slow-growing ones  If the specific costs for maintenance and growth cannot explain the relatively high respiration rates of slow-growing species, then the most likely explanation for the observed differences in root respiration between slowgrowing and fast-growing species is variation in the specific cost for nutrient acquisition. Slow-growing species, which are often associated with unproductive environments (Section II), are likely to be geared towards nutrient uptake from a very dilute solution in comparison with the fastgrowing species from relatively nutrient-rich habitats. This may require more energy, either because it involves extrusion and re-uptake of compounds which release ions from complexes in the soil (Section XI.A) or because the ratio of proton entry and ion absorption is higher, compared to the system of fast-growing species (cf.  
 With a decreasing nitrogen supply, there is a decline in the nitrogen concentration and the rate of respiration per unit mass, both in roots  When plants are transferred to a low quantum flux density, the rate of root respiration declines  
 At an optimum nutrient supply, the specific rate of root respiration of fast-growing species is lower than expected from their high RGR and high NIR. A satisfactory explanation for this relatively low respiration rate cannot be provided yet, but it may well be due to a relatively low energy requirement for ion acquisition. At a nutrient supply or quantum flux density which is suboptimal for growth, the rate of respiration in both leaves and roots is less than for plants growing under optimum conditions. This is at least partly explained by reduced rates of energy-requiring processes. Upon a change in nitrogen supply, fast-growing species adjust their respiration rate to a greater extent than slow-growing ones, possibly with concomitant changes in specific costs for energy-requiring processes. 
 Plants lose photosynthates through exudation and volatilization as well as during respiration. Exudation may occur both above-and below-ground, whereas volatilization predominantly occurs above-ground. 
 It is well established that roots exude a range of organic compounds, including sugars  Exudates are of distinct importance for the acquisition of sparingly available nutrients and for interactions with symbionts. Highly efficient chelators (phytosiderophores) are excreted by roots of Gramineae and these allow the roots to absorb Fe, Zn, Mn and Cu from poorly soluble sources in calcareous soils  Release of organic substances from roots can also play a pivotal role in symbiotic associations. For example, flavonoids, released from the roots of Leguminosae induce the nodulation genes of Rhizobium, the primary step in the nodulation process  Losses of carbon through exudation also occur above-ground. We have very little information on their quantitative importance and inherent variation of this process  
 Although it is probably fair to state that volatile losses are generally not of great quantitative significance, they are of fairly wide importance, e.g. in allelopathic interactions and herbivory  Emissions of isoprene in three fern species accounted for 0.02 to 2.6% of the carbon fixed during photosynthesis, increasing with photon flux density and temperature and varying between species  Losses of specific volatiles, though quantitatively minor (less than 0.001% of the photosynthates produced daily), are responsible for attraction of predators upon attack of leaves by herbivores, e.g. spider mites, and thus reduce herbivore damage  
 Losses through exudation sensu lato can significantly reduce a plant's growth rate. Carbon loss through exudation and volatilization is most certainly of ecological importance in a nutrient-poor environment and in interactions of a plant species with other organisms. Although not supported by hard evidence, we hypothesize that exudation is more important in slow-growing species from nutrient-poor sites. Exudation might allow such species to acquire nutrients which are otherwise unavailable. 
 Apart from the above-mentioned traits, which directly affect the growth of a plant, some other aspects of fast-growing and slow-growing species and mutants thereof have been investigated. In recent years fascinating information has become available on the role of a specific class of phytohormones in the control of a plant's growth rate-the gibberellins. 
 Fast-growing genotypes contain more gibberellin than slower-growing ones  Mutants of Lycopersicon esculentum with reduced levels of gibberellin, have a range of characteristics similar to slow-growing species, e.g. a higher RWR, but lower LAR and SLA, relatively more dry matter per unit fresh weight, and a low rate of photosynthesis per unit leaf dry weight (H.  The detailed mechanism of the gibberellin effects on growth is largely unknown. However, it is well documented that this phytohormone affects stem growth via both cell elongation and cell division  Clearly, further work is needed on the mechanism of gibberellin action on cell growth and on the level of this phytohormone in different species. This may well lead to physiological explanations for inherent variation in RGR and provide insight into evolutionary mechanisms causing such variation. 
 Fast-growing grass species tend to have wider leaves than slow-growing ones; leaves of dicotyledonous fast-growing species also tend to be larger than those of slow-growing ones  The diurnal pattern of leaf growth may vary between species and hybrids thereof. Leaves of Populus trichocarpa mainly grow in the light, with little growth in the dark, those of P. deltoides grow during the dark period, with little stimulation in the light, whereas their fast-growing interspecific hybrids grow during both night and dark  For a wide range of species and for families of Poa annua, a slightly negative correlation between nuclear DNA content and RGR has been reported  
 In the previous sections several aspects of the physiology, morphology, allocation and biochemical composition have been discussed in relation to the potential growth rate of plant species. We now address the question of what proportion each parameter contributes to the observed differences in growth rate, using (Eq. (  5 )) as a framework. 
 For the nine species presented in Figures  1-4  and 6 , RGR varies more than three-fold. The carbon concentration (Section VIII) is lower for fast-growing species, which is partly due to their higher mineral concentration. The lower carbon concentration contributes to a higher RGR, but is only of minor importance in explaining the observed variation in RGR. Quantifications of exudation and volatile losses are scarce but these processes are unlikely to determine a large part of the variation in RGR either (Section IX). Hence, the major differences are due to variation in photosynthetic gain and respiratory losses of carbon. Indeed, carbon gain of the fastest-growing of these 9 species is about 3.1 times that of the slowest-growing one (Figure  7 ). This is caused by a much higher SLA (Section V) and a slightly higher LWR (Section VI), rather than by a higher rate of photosynthesis per unit leaf area (Section VIII). Species also differ in the way they utilize the fixed carbon. Although fast-growing species have higher shoot and root respiration rates, the proportion of fixed carbon used in respiration is less. This is due largely to a higher rate of photosynthesis per unit plant weight and, as far as root respiration is concerned, also to the lower RWR of fast-growing species. It is to be expected that the lower RWR contributes to the higher RGR, provided the smaller root size is compensated for by a higher specific activity. Indeed, fast-growing species do have a much higher rate of net ion uptake (Section VII) and water absorption  Figure  7  The carbon budget of a slow-growing species (Corynephorus canescens, left) and a fast-growing species (Galinsoga parviflora, right). In the upper line the RGR of these species is given (expressed in mg g À1 day À1 ). The second line gives the daily gross CO 2 fixation (mmol (g plant) À1 ).  
 Up till now we have treated the different physiological and morphological aspects as being independent of each other. This is a simplified view, as there are numerous interrelations. For example, a shift in biomass allocation from leaves to roots implies a decrease in the photosynthetically active area and an increase in the respiratory burden. Consequently, a decrease in the rate of carbon fixation and growth of such a plant is expected. At the same time, a high allocation to roots may ensure better access to nutrients and water, which may result in an increased plant nitrogen concentration, a higher photosynthetic capacity per unit leaf area and also a higher stomatal conductance. Moreover, there may be a decrease in self-shading. Consequently, the rate of photosynthesis per unit leaf area will increase. Also, root biomass is generally energetically cheaper to construct  Another simplification we have made so far is to compare diferent types of plants over a limited time course. Investment of biomass in compounds that reduce herbivory or increase a plant's stress tolerance then inevitably leads to a decrease in the rate of photosynthesis per unit plant weight (Section IX.D). However, due to these investments, the life expectancy of a leaf increases, the net result being a possibly similar or even higher rate of photosynthesis integrated over the entire life span of a leaf  Strong correlations between different plant traits do not necessarily imply causal relations. For example, the correlation of RGR with SLA is probably partly fortuitous. Based on the conventional growth analysis (Eqs. (1)-(  5 )), we conclude that variation in SLA is the main cause for inherent variation in RGR. Simplified, it means that an increase in leaf area relative to leaf weight increases the growth rate. From a mechanistic point of view this statement is not entirely correct. Although photosynthesis indeed is an area-related process, the actual quantum capture and CO 2 -fixation require, light-harvesting complexes, the coupling factor, Rubisco and other photosynthetically active components (Section IX). As this photosynthetic machinery incorporates the major part of a leaf's organic nitrogen, PNUE and leaf organic nitrogen may be used as a good approximation of the efficiency and size of the photosynthetic machinery (Section IX). Fast-growing species have both a higher PNUE and a higher organic nitrogen concentration. These two parameters appear to be closely correlated with SLA and, combined, show the same 2.2-fold variation for the nine species presented here, as found for SLA. This correlation partly reflects a causal relation, in so far as a high SLA coincides with a low concentration of chlorophyll per unit leaf area  5 ) cannot provide the full answer to the causes of inherent variation in RGR. 
 Up till now we have paid most attention to plants grown under conditions favourable for plant growth. But how do fast-and slow-growing species perform under suboptimal conditions? When grown at a low nutrient concentration in the environment, the RGR of potentially fast-growing species is reduced more than that of slowgrowing ones (e.g.  The higher RGR of the inherently fast-growing Holcus lanatus, in comparison with the slow-growing Deschampsia flexuosa, at a low nutrient supply is explained by differences in LAR (C.A.D.M. van de Vijver, R.G.A.  When grown at a low quantum flux density, fast-growing sun species have a similar RGR to slow-growing shade species  
 A. What Ecological Advantage can be Conferred by a Plant's Growth Potential? The ecological advantage of a high RGR seems straightforward: fast growth results in the rapid occupation of a large space, which is advantageous in a situation of competition for limiting resources. A high RGR may also facilitate rapid completion of the life cycle of a plant, which is essential for ruderals. But what is the survival value of slow growth?  (i) Slow-growing species make modest demands and will therefore less likely exhaust the available resources, e.g. nutrients. However, this does not seem to be an evolutionary stable strategy, as a neigbouring individual with a faster nutrient uptake could absorb most nutrients (cf.  We conclude that a low potential growth rate per se does not confer ecological advantage. Why then do slow-growing species occur more frequently in unfavourable habitats than fast-growing ones? An alternative explanation for the observed differences in potential growth rate is that not RGR itself, but rather one of the components linked with RGR, has been the target of selection  
 The most likely trait selected for is SLA, as variation in this trait is closely correlated with that in RGR (Section V; cf.  In a situation where , water or nutrients are limiting, conservation of the scarce resource is at least as important as its capture. Hence, plants under water stress should decrease their transpiration  Herbivory can be reduced by increasing leaf toughness  Is there any indication that plants without these types of adjustment could survive in unfavourable habitats? This would require introduction of plants that only differ in one specific trait in different environments. However, such isogenic genotypes are not available, and variation in one trait could be expected to affect related traits (Section VIII.B). The best ecological information available is that from introduction of foreign species, e.g. the introduction into Venezuela of two African C 4 species. The introduced species with a high SLA have outcompeted a native C 4 species, which possesses a low SLA, in relatively fertile places, but not in more infertile habitats  Here again, a high SLA appears associated with competive ability and a low SLA with persistence. 
 It is likely that other traits underlying RGR have also been the target of natural selection. For example, the relatively high RWR of slow-growing species is a cause of their low RGR (Section VII.A). However, RWR is a rather plastic trait, especially in fast-growing species, so that correlations between plant performance and RWR may reflect phenotypic, rather than inherent variation. In so far as a high RWR reflects a greater ability to compete for soilderived resources  A low nitrogen concentration in the leaf, though reducing the photosynthetic capacity, may add to the leaf's longevity by decreasing herbivory (Section VIII.B), and thus the photosynthetic yield during the leaf's entire life span may be higher when the leaf nitrogen concentration is relatively low. These patterns of investment, which inexorably reduce the plant's growth potential, tend to add to a species' success in nutrient-poor or and environments where losses due to herbivory severely reduce the plant's fitness. Thus, they imply a trade-off between growth potential and adaptation to specific habitat features that limit growth. 
 Fast-growing species often grow in competitive situations in a vegetation which develops a high leaf area index during the season. Optimization of the use of nitrogen for photosynthesis and maximization of production then requires the discharge of the oldest, shaded leaves and retranslocation of a part of the N to the youngest, more exposed leaves  Consequently, in fairly dense vegetations where light capture is essential and leaf turnover is high, there is a selection pressure for leaves with a high SLA  
 Environments, Other than Nutrient-poor Habitats So far, we have concentrated on nutrient-poor habitats, when referring to adverse soil conditions. Although there is quite convincing information that traits associated with a low RGR confer selective advantage in some unproductive environments, it is by no means certain that this is invariably so. Sites that are rich in heavy metals tend to be inhabited by slowgrowing ecotypes  
 We conclude that there are trade-offs between investment in structures that lead to a high growth potential and in structures associated with conservation of nutrients and biomass, when accumulation of large amounts of secondary plant compounds are involved. In so far as nutrient losses are associated with rapid leaf turnover there may well be consequences of efficient functioning in one environment for the performance in another. A final conclusion awaits further information on the regulation of the nitrogen concentration in leaves of fast-and slow-growing species, both as dependent on the nitrogen supply and on the light climate in the canopy. It is likely that there are trade-offs between tolerance of adverse conditions, other than nutrient-poor conditions, and growth potential, but there is no convincing evidence that stress-tolerance and a low RGR are invariably causally related. More information on the mechanisms underlying RGR and stress-tolerance is required before further generalizations can be made. 
 Generalizing the above leads to suites of traits of a ''typical fastgrowing'' and a ''typical slow-growing'' plant species (Table  5 ). Most of these traits refer to slow-growing species from nutrient-poor sites. Species from other adverse habitats may also have a lower RGR (Section II and XVE), but much less comparative data are available. The difference with species from more favourable conditions is probably less pronounced and information on special traits of such slow-growing species is scanty. A typically fast-growing species occurs in productive habitats and, under optimum growth conditions, invests heavily in leaf area (high SLA, high LAR), possibly as a result of higher gibberellin production. Although their rate of photosynthesis per unit leaf area is not necessarily higher, fast-growing species have higher rates of photosynthesis per unit leaf weight: The higher photosynthesis is partly caused by a higher leaf organic nitrogen concentration, partly by variation in the efficiency with which nitrogen is used for photosynthesis (PNUE). One of the likely causes of the low PNUE of slow-growing species is the investment of nitrogen in compounds and structures associated with the protection of their leaves against both biotic and abiotic adverse conditions, but this is unlikely to offer the full explanation. Fast-growing species have higher rates of shoot and root respiration, expressed per unit shoot and root weight, respectively. But their root respiration is not as much higher as to be expected from their much higher rate of growth and nutrient uptake. We hypothesize that slow-growing species constitutively have a rather costly uptake system which is more effective under nutrient-poor conditions. Fast-growing species have a greater ability to adjust their biomass allocation when exposed to nutrient-poor conditions. There is no evidence that the greater plasticity of allocation of biomas and nitrogen of fastgrowing species per se confers any disadvantage under nutrient-limited conditions. However, the leaf longevity of fast-growing species is also shorter and further reduced under nutrient-poor conditions, leading to relatively large losses of nutrients. This inefficient use of nutrients is considered one of the main reasons for the lack of success of inherently fast-growing species in nutrient-poor environments. Trade-offs between investment in photosynthetic machinery and the degree to which a plant is defended against herbivory, leaf damage due to strong winds, trampling, drought, salt and/or diseases are likely to have occurred, mainly by adaptations which decrease SLA. A number of topics relating to characteristic differences between fast-growing and slow-growing species still need continued attention. These include the physiological mechanisms determining inherent variation in specific leaf area, biomass allocation, photosynthetic nitrogen use efficiency, root respiration, the importance of gibberellins and the life-span of the different plant organs. There is also a lack of information on the quantitative importance of losses through exudates and volatiles and their association with nutrient acquisition and interactions between a plant and other organisms. A cost-benefit analysis for symbiotic associations, as dependent on environmental conditions, is needed to evaluate their significance in the acquisition of nutrients. Further evidence is also required to substantiate our belief that biomass allocation of fast-growing species is more plastic with respect to factors other than nutrient supply. If proven correct, information on the regulation of such plasticity and on the ecological significance thereof is needed. Finally, the physiological and ecological costs and benefits of the various inherent adaptations to adverse environments warrant further research. We have attempted to provide a general background on inherent variation in growth rate and to identify major research areas which need further investigation. Such investigations require a combined approach from ecologists, physiologists, biochemists, phytochemists and theoretical biologists. They are bound to yield information which is of great importance for our understanding of the functioning of plants, both in their natural environment and in a crop situation. H. LAMBERS AND H. POORTER
Intensive agricultural systems are often based on optimising the productivity of monocultures. In those systems, crop diversity is reduced to one or very few species that are generally genetically homogeneous, the planting layout is uniform and symmetrical, and external inputs are often supplied in large quantities. Such systems are widely criticised today for their negative environmental impacts, such as soil erosion and 1998). Those systems, which are often without synthetic inputs and based on integrated management of local natural resources and, in many cases, on rational management of biodiversity, theoretically offer numerous ecological advantages. 
 Faced with the critical situation of intensive monocultures, new conceptual ways of constructing sustainable agroecosystems are being sought  Agricultural research now has an adequate tool-box of methods and models for technology development in monospecific cropping systems, but its suitability for more complex systems is unsure. Methods for designing multispecies systems barely exist. Systemic agronomy concepts (crop management sequences, cropping system), and especially the tools derived from that discipline, scarcely deal with the complexity of multispecies systems. In particular, the modelling tools widely used today in agronomy are not well adapted to simulating them. New models are required to represent, assess and design sustainable multispecies cropping systems. This article addresses those questions, reviews concepts suitable for use in dealing with multispecies systems and attempts to identify shortcomings in terms of tools, thereby proposing new avenues of research. It is based on a wide range of systems, such as simple or complex, uniform or heterogeneous and intercropped species, such as annual and perennial, herbaceous and woody, etc. The article is structured in 3 parts, focusing successively on the following issues: (i) the reasons for mixing species, i.e. benefits and drawbacks, (ii) the concepts and tools used for understanding and designing cropping systems with mixed species, and (iii) the models existing and needed for simulating multispecies cropping systems. 
 
 The relationship between biological diversity and ecosystem functions has been and continues to be the focus of much work in the ecology field  
 In world agriculture, a multitude of different cropping systems can be identified on the basis of their composition, design and management. The agroecological areas involved in species mixing extends, in theory, to all cultivated zones, be they temperate or tropical, dry or humid. In what follows, the multispecies systems described consist of growing several crops simultaneously in the same field, or more generally, of mixing several plant species within the same field: field crop species, pasture species, trees, or combinations of these. Multispecies systems have been the subject of numerous typologies and classifications that may include various criteria such as (i) the permanence of a specific crop assemblage or, conversely, the frequency of land-use rotation, (ii) the intensity of intercropping, i.e. the number, type and level of spatio-temporal occurrence of crops within the field, and (iii) the percentage of tree canopy cover in the field  I  illustrates that variability, with certain properties that might be exerted as soon as genotypes are mixed within the same species. The degree of complexity increases, which might be expressed by the number of intercropped species, the nature of those species (existence to varying degrees of wild species "managed" by the farmer), the number of strata making up the vertical profile, and the simultaneous existence of several groups of species (annual/perennial, woody/non-woody). Pictures 1 to 3 show examples of row intercropping, row agroforestry in Europe and complex agroforestry in the humid tropics, respectively. 
 
 The idea that the species diversity of ecological communities contributes to stability is among ecology's most venerable hypotheses  1 . Although the form of the relation between planned and associated biodiversity, and the exact processes involved, remain open questions  I . Different forms of species mixtures in agricultural systems. Systems are classified according to a gradient of complexity, including the number and type of plant species (annual vs. perennial), the horizontal and vertical structure of the mixture, and the life cycle duration of the species (S = short cycle, L = long cycle).   
 
 Tropical homegardens; cocoa, coffee and rubber agroforests (humid tropics) 
 Cocoa/coconut tree (Oceania) Coffee/wood tree (Central America) Cereals/herbaceous legumes and grasses. Ex : Rice/arachis pintoï (Europe, South America) 2 species (maize-sorghum, maizecassava, etc.) to n species (tropical garden e.g. rice, maize, tomato, cassava, etc.) (humid tropics), annual grassland (Europe) Grassland (North America, Europe, Australia, etc.) maize/ green manure legume tree (Tropics) Pueraria/oil palm tree (Asia, Africa), Grass/vineyard (Europe) Pineapple/rubber tree (Humid Asia) Relationship between planned biodiversity (plant species introduced and cultivated intentionally by the farmer) and associated biodiversity (species that colonize the agroecosystem).  
 The advantage of a mixture has often been assimilated to a higher yield of the mixture when compared with an equal area divided between monocultures of the components in the same proportion as they occur in the mixture. Advantage may also be considered when the yield of the mixture is higher than the yield of its best components grown in a monoculture over the whole of the same area, a less frequent situation called transgressive deviation. In a study based on published data on 344 binary mixtures,  Mixing species can also influence product quality, although different processes may interfere. In coffee (Coffea arabica L.) agroforestry systems in Central America, shade due to timber or shade trees promotes slower and more balanced filling and uniform ripening of berries, thus yielding a better-quality product than a monoculture of unshaded plants  
 Some crop combinations offer advantages in terms of reducing pests and diseases  Numerous studies have shown a significant reduction in harmful insects in mixed cropping systems compared with monocultures of the same species  A particular type of mixed crop is called trap cropping. Trap crops are "plant stands that are, per se or via manipulation, deployed to attract, divert, intercept and/or retain targeted insects or the pathogen they vector, in order to reduce damage to the main crop"  The reducing effect of crop mixes on diseases  However, the balance of effects can be complex: for instance, heavy shading in cocoa agroforests may increase pod rot (Phytophthora megakarya), but may at the same time reduce insect (Sahlbergella singularis) attacks and impacts. Reducing or increasing shade intensity by controlling associated forest trees is therefore an important component of integrated pest and disease management in cocoa agroforests  
 Nutritional complementation(+) Nitrogen fixation by legumes (+) Losses (-) 
 Habitat for associated biodiversity (+) auxillaries (+)  
 
 Above ground (trees) (+) Below ground (soil organic matter) (+) 
 Erosion (-) Runoff (-) Evaporation (+/-) Soil structure (+) 
 Diseases (+/-) Insects(+/-) Weeds + 
 Processes and induced properties in multispecies systems. 
 In addition to agricultural products, multispecies systems may provide environmental services that have impacts beyond the field scale, either spatially, e.g. services to the local or the global community, or temporally, e.g. modifications of the environment for future generations. Factors that interact in multispecies systems and may impact on both production and protection functions are summarised in Figure  2 . The most documented environmental services are related to the following areas: (i) Biodiversity conservation: the enhanced diversity of plants in a field may host a larger range of species, from plants to insects, birds to mammals, above-or belowground  1 ). For crops such as coffee and cocoa, biodiversity often differs less between natural habitats and low-intensity multispecies systems than it does between low-intensity and high-intensity systems  Beyond conservation issues, higher biodiversity can have local effects, such as greater resilience to abiotic or biotic disruptions, particularly through greater microbial diver-sity in the soil  Multispecies systems can also provide other services, linked to the quality of the environment: trees over crops can provide shade and shelter for animals and humans, and, on a landscape scale, enhance the aesthetical value of land. However, such services are difficult to assess. 
 The economic profitability of multispecies systems is firstly related to their productivity. Despite difficulties due to the number of products involved, specific tools have been developed to assess that productivity. The LER concept (Land Equivalent Ratio, developed hereafter) has been extended to take into account the duration of land occupancy by crops (Area × Time Equivalence Ratio, ATER) or to incorporate monetary returns (Monetary equivalent ratio, MER). However, other issues have to be considered when assessing economic profitability  (i) Product time range When setting up perennial plantations such as oil palms or rubber trees, crop mixing is widely used to generate income in the first years of the plantation, when the palms or trees are still unproductive, do not produce any economic returns and also occupy a confined field space. As investments and products are needed or delivered at different times, a financial appraisal of these agroforestry systems calls for tools developed to assess forestry projects, such as Discounted Cash Flow, and the results of the comparisons depend on the discount rate chosen. Nevertheless, most studies show an economic advantage for multispecies systems used for that purpose, when compared with pure forestry projects. (ii) Income stability Stability has often been presented as the main reason for adopting multispecies systems in situations exposed to risk, such as poor tropical agriculture. Multispecies systems that provide several products can maintain a more stable income, particularly if price variations for those products are not correlated. Multispecies systems also often require lower external fertiliser and pesticide inputs. That lower dependence on external inputs makes multispecies systems more resilient to external changes, such as product prices. Intercropping a new crop with a traditional crop is also a way of cautiously entering a new market, without much knowledge, as shown by fruit production in cocoa agroforestry systems in Cameroon. (iii) Evaluation of ecological services Multispecies systems may also offer ecological services, either for the internal benefit of the fields in which they are cultivated (pollination or soil conservation) or for external benefits, such as water quality, biodiversity or the beauty of the landscape. Valuing those services is becoming an important issue, to incorporate them into the economic appraisal of cropping systems. Several examples exist of payment for such services, particularly in Latin America, but accurate assessment is still needed. (iv) Labour productivity Mixing is also assumed to be conducive to an adequate distribution of labour over the year. Unfortunately, very little on-farm research has been published on labour distribution and labour productivity in multispecies systems compared with pure crops. Some data are available on annual intercrops, such as the "abonera" system in Honduras, where velvet bean (Mucuna deeringianum) is sown in the rows of corn. That system shows higher labour productivity, even after the second year of establishment, whatever the discount rate chosen. In Brazil, the direct sowing mulchbased cropping system, combining cover crops before, after or during the main crop, is widely adopted on mechanised farms. The adoption of these systems by smallholders is mainly motivated by labour savings, but precise labour data are not available. Multispecies systems may also favour the equity of income distribution within the family, as in West Africa, where, for instance, nuts of the shea tree (Vitellaria paradoxa) scattered in the fields are for the exclusive benefit of women. Although frequent, the advantages and benefits of multispecies systems must not be overgeneralised: not all crops are beneficial in mixtures, since they do not systematically generate ecological and/or economic benefits, and may involve more complex or higher inputs of labour. Even when advantages are recognised, multispecies systems are sometimes more difficult to manage and require substantial farmer skills and specific research efforts. 
 
 
 Agronomy is a discipline that concentrates on both the biophysical functioning of the cultivated field, and on the reasoning of actions taken in plant production  As regards the reasoning of actions, agronomy has produced a theoretical corpus based on decision rules for crop management, incorporated into cropping system  
 The relations between plant interactions and plant community structures have long received the attention of ecological research  That framework provided by ecology primarily relies on three principles based on the hypotheses of complementarity, facilitation and selection of species possessing particular traits  Taking into account competition between species is a preferential point of entry for both agronomy and ecology, which has strongly influenced the concepts and tools developed by the two disciplines. Competition has received close attention in ecological research  
 Simple methods can be used to assess the benefits of multispecies systems by estimating their productivity using the Land Equivalent Ratio (LER,  The resulting LER indicates the amount of land needed to grow both species together compared with the amount of land needed to grow pure stands of each (Fig.  3a ). A LER greater than 1.0 indicates mixed systems are advantageous, whereas a LER less than 1.0 shows a yield disadvantage. A Density Equivalent Ratio (DER) can be defined as a measure of the crowding of the mixture: DER = mixed density1/pure density1 + mixed density2/pure density2 Additive, substitutive and intermediate designs may be used to combine species in mixed cropping systems (Fig.  3b ). The key assumption in the use of the LER is that the densities of plants in the sole cropping controls are close to the optimum. The null hypothesis (LER = 1) means that inter-and intraspecific interactions are equivalent. The properties of multispecies systems are not always derivable from the properties of individual species. Collective dynamics may lead to emergent properties that cannot be deduced from species properties alone, i.e. redistribution of the soil-water resource by shrubs in agroforestry systems. This makes it more complicated to define a proper methodology for studying multispecies systems compared with studies involving one species.  Let us consider N species cultivated in a monoculture in N fields with areas equal to s l , . . ., s i , . . ., s N , respectively. Note z i = s i × y i the crop product obtained with a monoculture of the ith species in the ith field, where y i is the crop product per unit area. Crop products can be expressed as yields or as gross margins. It is more worthwhile expressing y and z as gross margins when the monetary prices of the crops are very different. Now, let us consider a mixture of the N species. Note z i = s T × y i the crop product obtained for the ith species when the N species are cultivated as a mixture on a total area defined by s T = s l + . . . + s N . Then, the covariance function defined by  cov R z i , z i = 1 N N i=1 R z i -Rz (z i -z) (1) where R z i = z i z i -1 is the relative gain for the ith species which results from the mixture of the N species. According to  1 ) can be used to measure the 'selection effect'. A positive covariance indicates that the highest relative gains R z i , i = 1, . . ., N, are obtained for the species giving the best results when cultivated in a monoculture. On the other hand, a covariance near zero indicates that those relative gains are not linked to the performance of the N species in the monoculture. A small covariance does not necessarily indicate that the overall gain resulting from the mixture of the N species is small. Indeed, it is easily shown that the overall gain is a sum of two terms: Δ = N i=1 z i - N i=1 z i = N × cov R z i , z i + N × Rz z (2) where Δ is the overall gain resulting from the mixture of the N species, z = 1 N N i=1 z i , and Rz = 1 N N i=1 R z i . The first term is proportional to the covariance cov R z i , z i and the second term is proportional to the average value Rz of the relative gains obtained for the N species. This second term can be used to measure the complementary effect of the species in the mixture. A positive value of Rz indicates that, on average, the relative gains obtained for the different species are positive. 
 
 Referring to  4 ). These types of interactions give them a set of properties including competition for space, competition for light between canopies, and competition for water and nutrients between root systems. The agronomic advantages of multispecies systems are the result of differences in the competitive ability for growth factors between plant components. In terms of competition,   
 Of all the major environmental factors that contribute to reported multispecies system merits, the capture and use of solar radiation is the one that has received the most attention  
 
 
 Belowground competition occurs when plants decrease the growth, survival or fecundity of neighbours by reducing available soil resources. Contrary to aboveground competition, which primarily involves a single resource, light, plants compete for a broad range of soil resources including water and at least 20 mineral nutrients that differ in molecular size, valence, oxidation state and mobility within the soil  5 ): (i) Resource supply to the roots involves four main processes: the distribution of resources in the soil and their availability, which depends on soil biophysical and chemical properties, interception by the roots (<10%), mass flow, which affects water and mobile nutrients such as NO - 3 , and diffusion, which affects nutrients such as P and K. (ii) Root system characteristics include morphological plasticity -root location in time  An analysis of the belowground processes and resource use by plants presents tremendous challenges as there are still general methodological difficulties despite the advances made in techniques and equipment design. For example, roots of the component plants can intermingle  
 For a long time, plant ecologists have intensively studied competition and facilitation along resource gradients  
 These refer to a variety of processes that include allelopathy and competition with weeds, along with pest and disease interactions with plants. 
 Two types of action are identified to explain the reduction in weed biomass frequently observed: (i) competition for resources such as light, water, nitrogen or other nutrients, and (ii) allelopathy  Allelopathy refers to inhibition of the growth of one plant by chemical compounds released into the soil from neighbouring plants. It may inhibit a mixture: tree species such as Gliricidia sepium or Leucaena leucocephala used in agroforestry are reported to have allelopathic effects on maize and rice seedlings  
 In order to explain interactions between mixtures and diseases and pests, a distinction is made between different processes: (i) The dilution effect The hypothesis of resource concentration put forward by  
 The previous theory of  
 
 Models of plant mixtures apply to various systems: crops and weeds, mixtures of crop varieties, intercropping of different crop species, tree and crop mixtures (agroforestry, treeshelters), and tree species mixtures (mixed forests). The nonlinear behaviour of multispecies systems cannot be accounted for by simply studying or modelling plant components independently. 
 Design decisions made from the small amount of empirical evidence from the few available trials on multispecies systems are inherently weak, as plant development and productivity in mixtures are site-or weatherspecific  
 All models of multispecies systems simulate interspecific interactions which are key determinants of the structure, the dynamics and the productivity of mixed plant communities. As seen previously, in contrast with sole cropping, multispecies systems have parallels with basic ecological principles. Plant interaction models are categorised as being either empirical, providing only a description of the outcome of competition, or process-based, offering a representation of the physiological processes underlying plant growth. Empirical models are useful for making predictions within the range of data used to parameterise them but are not suitable for extrapolation. Mechanistic models that are based on the behaviour of individual plants are based on "focal plant-neighbour plant" interactions. In contrast to empirical models, process-based models have the ability to make predictions outside the range of data used in their parameterisation, making them the models of choice for designing plant species mixtures. In order to simulate both competition and facilitation, it is necessary to achieve a balance in aboveground and belowground interactions in resource capture by the component species. Moreover, in modelling approaches, a balance needs to be maintained between process and pattern, between temporal and spatial aspects. Multispecies dynamic models for resource partition must include appropriate plasticity mechanisms in the plant models, solve the resource sharing for multiple resources simultaneously, and couple plant and crop models often built with different concepts (Fig.  6 ). 
 A comparison of some representative multispecies system models is presented (Tab. II). Relatively few models have been developed for mixtures of tree species (Bartelink, 2000;  Competition models for trees only usually run on a yearly time step, while competition models for crops only, or crops and trees, run on a daily time step. Multispecies system models can be divided into three groups depending on spatial discretisation of the simulated scene. Most models ignore the spatial heterogeneity of plant mixtures, and simplify the system to a one-dimensional representation. They include CROPSYS  Time steps in all these models vary from 1 year to one day or less, with possible integration over the course of one or more growing seasons, up to a century for forest models. The models have not been designed for the same purpose, or for the same users, and a comparison is therefore tricky. They often combine simplicity and complexity: one model might be very simple regarding one mechanism, while being more realistic and close to mechanistic models for simulating other processes. Most of the models are used as research tools rather than management tools. Knowledge gaps have been identified and are discussed in the following section. 
 
 One of the main characteristics of multispecies systems is the wide range of spatial arrangements (strip or mixed systems, alley crops with various plant-plant distances, mixtures of annuals and perennials, vertical discontinuities in agroforests, windbreaks, etc.) and temporal arrangements (simultaneous versus sequential) that farmers opt for depending on their agroecological purposes. Such a platform is only partially designed in WaNulCAS and Hi-sAFe for agroforestry systems. A real breakthrough is needed in the design of a flexible platform that involves both multi-spatial and temporal management, including annual (intercrops, cover crops) and perennial (agroforests, forests) arrangements. The CAPSIS platform provides an attractive example of such operational platforms designed for the simulation of forest dynamics and productivity. Dynamic simulation models need to integrate competition for different resources in time and space, so as to predict highly non-linear response patterns. A key point in future modelling challenges remains the need for a link between different models geared towards process levels and, above all, between different spatial and temporal scales. That objective means creating bridges between ecophysiology, population biology and functional ecology. Table  II  focuses on the modelling of multispecies systems as a whole, but other modelling tools are available and relevant to the analysis of some multispecies system processes or components. For example, radiation models based on 3D architectural mock-ups and ray-tracing can be used to derive parameters of the turbid medium analogy widely applied in multispecies system models  
 The large number of possible species combinations, management practices and site-dependent interactions in multispecies systems indicates that a pure empirical approach would be unsuitable for most problems to be solved. Although intensive work has been devoted to simulating abiotic interactions (light, water) in multispecies systems, efforts need to be focused on (i) better knowledge of interactions for resources, which requires both suitable discretisation of the above-and belowground environment (voxellisation) and realistic simulation of the physical properties of mass transport laws -simulation of changes in soil physical properties, due to tillage and biological activities, must also receive greater attention  Biotic investigations still remain the poor relation of modelling research on multispecies systems, although many models have been developed to simulate the growth and activity of weed, pest and disease populations  In other respects, assessing the impact of climate change and CO 2 elevation scenarios on multispecies system productivity and the environment will continue to be an important field of research, particularly for simulating the ability of species to adapt to changing temperatures, moisture availability, atmospheric CO 2 concentration and other aspects of climate change, i.e. pest pressure. 
 Despite its potential advantages and the huge diversity of multispecies systems existing in world agriculture, mainstream agronomic research has largely focused on monocrop systems, with very little interest in ecological interactions between species in mixed systems. Today, it is barely feasible to simulate multispecies systems and, due to the absence of efficient models, it is difficult to understand the effects of the different factors that interact within those systems. The relevance, but relative limitation of the concepts and existing tools of systemic agronomy in alone representing and simulating multispecies systems and their properties certainly reveal the need to find new representations to account for the particular processes brought into play. As shown in this article, the numerous mechanisms involved in species mixing highlight the need to deal with their complexity by combining concepts from diverse disciplines (agronomy, ecology, epidemiology, etc.), although the necessary link with ecology largely remains to be constructed. As emphasised by  For all these issues, multispecies systems are today a real challenge for agricultural research, and more specifically for systemic agronomy. It is time to understand and integrate their complex functioning and develop an adequate tool-box for checking and ensuring their technological development.
Understanding the determinants of plant root development and growth is a major scientific challenge to better manage plant-plant interactions in multispecific canopies, especially, to maximise soil-resource uptake by associated crops  Root system architecture plays a key role in this competition for soil-resources between plants  To investigate these knowledge gaps, an original approach was used, based on a simple model of root architecture, called ArchiSimple  
 
 Two greenhouse experiments were conducted in Dijon (France) using a total of 12 monocotyledonous and dicotyledonous annual plant species, including three crop species and nine weed species selected to cover a gradient of nitrophily  1 ). In each experiment, all plant species were grown under two nitrogen treatments with contrasting nitrate concentrations (0.625 and 10.5 mM). Concerning the experimental design (similar in both experiments), the two nitrogen treatments were separated because they required two different networks for automatic watering (see below). Within each nitrogen treatment, plant species were randomly arranged. The duration of the experiments was 8 and 4 weeks in Experiment 1 and 2, respectively. 
 The seed lots were identical between experiments, except for three species: Alopecurus myosuroides, Geranium molle and Vulpia myuros. In both experiments, seeds were germinated in an incubator with a 16-h photoperiod and day/night temperatures of 25/15 ∘ C. Thereafter, germinated seeds were sown into pots, with one seed per pot, on 13 March 2012 and 13 March 2013 for Experiment 1 and 2, respectively. Pots were filled with a solid, inert and draining substrate (1:1 mixture of expanded clay and attapulgite). In addition, in Experiment 2 only, approximately 15 mL of calcinated clay granules (Chemsorb, Damolin, Mettmann, Germany) was used in order to maintain soil moisture around germinating seeds. Pots were PVC tubes with a 30-cm height and a 12-cm diameter, corresponding to a volume of 3.4 L. The bottom of the pots was a grid with a mesh size of 0.5 cm in order to both retain the substrate inside the pot and facilitate the draining of the nutrient solution. Nutrient solutions (see  
 Three destructive measurements were performed at 4, 6 and 8 weeks, and 2, 3 and 4 weeks after sowing in Experiments 1 and 2, respectively. On each of these dates, four plants were sampled for each combination of species and nitrogen treatment. For each plant, the root system was gently removed from the soil and washed. The total numbers of primary roots (i.e. roots directly attached to the shoot -they are either seminal or nodal) and tillers were counted for monocotyledonous species only (dicotyledonous species have only one primary root, i.e. tap root, and no tiller). For all species, two plants, among the four plants, were randomly chosen for detailed measurements of root traits on either the entire or a portion of the root system, according to its size. For that purpose, roots were coloured with methylene blue (10 g L -1 ) to enhance the contrast of the roots when taking pictures, then fixed in agar (3 g g -1 ) to facilitate root positioning and finally scanned (GT20000, Epson, Nagano, Japan) at a 600 dots per inch resolution. For a precise measurement of extreme root diameters, some root tips carefully selected to include both the thinnest and the thickest roots per plant were scanned at a higher resolution (2400 dots per inch). In both experiments, plant leaf area was estimated (LI-3100 Area Meter; LI-COR, Lincoln, NE, USA) and leaf, stem and root biomass were determined after 48 h at 80 ∘ C. All images were analysed using SmartRoot  
 In this section, the method of calculation of the studied root traits, corresponding to parameters of the ArchiSimple root model, and additional root traits is presented. When time was used in calculations, it was expressed in thermal time (in degree-days) after sowing as defined by  1 ). For example, for plant species with a base temperature at 0 ∘ C, plants were sampled between 200 and 1190 degree-days, with an additional counting of the number of primary roots at 1414 degree-days for monocotyledonous species. The root traits are listed in Table  2  along with their ranges. 
 For both monocotyledonous and dicotyledonous species, the apical diameter of each new emerged primary root cannot exceed a maximal diameter (Dmax, in mm) which was the maximal measured value for each species × nitrogen treatment combination. While dicotyledonous species produce only one primary root (the tap root), monocotyledonous species produce numerous primary roots throughout their growth cycle. For monocotyledonous species, our data showed that the logarithm of the number of primary roots was a linear function of thermal time. In addition, the number of primary roots is known to be linearly related to the number of tillers per plant  
 Root elongation rate is known to increase linearly with root apical diameter when the diameter is higher than a threshold diameter below which no elongation is possible  The slope (EL, in mm degree-day -1 mm -1 ) of the linear regression between root elongation rate and apical diameter was calculated with a regression line passing through the point (Dmin,0). The root elongation rate was estimated differently between monocotyledonous and dicotyledonous species: 1 In monocotyledonous species, the root elongation rate was estimated for primary roots only. We considered that, in a given root system, the shortest primary roots were also the youngest ones, assuming that the differences of root elongation rates between primary roots were minor. So, each primary root on a given root system could be ranked from the oldest to the youngest ones. On this basis, a given rank of primary root could be followed from one sampling date to another one. For each rank of primary root, the mean root elongation rate could be calculated as the difference of root length between sampling dates divided by the elapsed time. 2 In dicotyledonous species, the root elongation rate was estimated for the primary root (tap root) and secondary roots (Fig.  S1 , Supporting information). The elongation rate of each individual sampled root was estimated by dividing its measured total length by its estimated age. For these calculations, the methodology of  A = Am (1 -((DB + LUZm) ∕Lm)) (1) where Am (in degree-days) is the age of the primary root (i.e. mother root), DB (in mm) is the distance between the base of the secondary root to that of the primary root, LUZm (in mm) is the length of the apical unbranched zone of the primary root (Fig.  S1 ), Lm (in mm) is the total length of the primary root. When using this equation, we assumed that the elongation rate had been approximately constant for the primary root. Whether plants were monocotyledonous or dicotyledonous species, each calculated root elongation rate was associated to a value of root apical diameter. So, for each species in each nitrogen treatment, we considered several pairs (root elongation rate and root apical diameter) to perform one regression. Measurements allowed to calculate the slope EL for only one experiment per species: Experiment 1 for Teucrium botrys and Thlaspi perfoliatum, and Experiment 2 for all the other species. 
 Branching density was characterised by measuring its reciprocal [i.e. the IBD in mm]. At the species level, IBD was obtained by averaging the measurements of the distance between successive lateral roots (on the same mother root). Each new lateral root is known to emerge with a diameter (Dl, in mm) related to that of its mother (Dm, in mm)  Dl = Dmin + HIER × (Dm -Dmin) (2) In our study, the slope HIER (in mm mm -1 ) was calculated to quantify the hierarchy, or dominance, between a root and its laterals (i.e. daughter roots). A low slope HIER value occurs when the diameters of the lateral roots are much lower than the diameter of the mother root. It reveals a 'herringbone' branching pattern, in opposition to a 'dichotomous' pattern when the slope value is high  
 The overall objective of our study was to analyse the species and nitrogen effects on root traits during the vegetative growth period. For that purpose, two experiments were conducted to sample plants at different growth stages during vegetative period. So, data from both experiments (conducted to sample plants at different growth stages) were pooled to calculate root traits representative of the vegetative period. For each root trait, one value was calculated for each species in each nitrogen treatment. The consequences on root traits of pooling the data of both experiments were analysed (Appendix S2). Analyses were performed using R 3.0.3 (R Development Core Team, 2014). Linear models were estimated with the 'lm' function in order to test the effects of the plant species, the nitrogen treatment and their interaction on plant growth traits and root traits. Analysis of variance (ANOVA) was used for traits corresponding to direct measurements on plants (plant leaf area, shoot biomass, root biomass, shoot : root biomass ratio, number of primary roots at the earliest sampling date, and IBD). Analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) was used for traits calculated as slopes of linear regressions (slopes of the linear regressions between (a) the number of primary roots and degree-days, (b) the number of primary roots and the number of tillers, (c) root elongation rate and apical diameter and (d) lateral and mother diameters). Log and square root transformations were used where necessary. Due to the mode of calculation of minimal and maximal root apical diameters (quantile values), an alternative method was used to analyse the effect of nitrogen. For each trait (minimal or maximal diameter), the nitrogen effect was analysed separately by plotting values at low nitrogen versus high nitrogen and fitting a linear regression. We then compared the regression parameters to the y = x line, concluding that the nitrogen effect was significant if the regression and y = x lines were different. 
 
 Differences between experiments affected plant growth rate: 4 weeks after sowing (corresponding to the first and third sampling date, respectively, in Experiments 1 and 2), plant leaf area, shoot biomass and root biomass were higher in Experiment 1 than in Experiment 2 (Appendix S1). So, a combined effect of both plant growth rate and plant age at the third sampling date (8 and 4 weeks after sowing in Experiments 1 and 2, respectively) explained the differences between experiments in plant growth stages at the third sampling date (Fig.  1 ). In each experiment, whatever the sampling date, plant leaf area, shoot biomass, root biomass and shoot : root biomass ratio all varied among species. Data at the third sampling date are illustrated in Fig.  1  independently for Experiment 2 (A-D) and Experiment 1 (E-H). In Experiment 2, at the first sampling date (data not shown), growth traits were unaffected by the nitrogen treatment. At the second sampling date (data not shown), only shoot biomass and shoot : root biomass ratio were affected by soil nitrogen with higher values at high soil-nitrogen, while, at the third sampling date (Fig.  1A , Fig.  1B , Fig.  1C  and Fig.  1D ), all growth traits increased in high versus low nitrogen availability, except root biomass which decreased significantly (Fig.  1C ). In Experiment 1, all growth traits increased in high versus low nitrogen availability at the three sampling dates, except root biomass which decreased (see Fig.  1E , Fig.  1F , Fig.  1G  and Fig.  1H  for the third sampling date). In Experiment 2, the nitrogen effect varied among species for all growth traits, as attested by the significant species × nitrogen treatment interaction at the second sampling date (except for leaf area) and the third one (Fig.  1A , Fig.  1B , Fig.  1C  and Fig.  1D  for the third sampling date). In Experiment 1, the nitrogen effect also varied among species for all growth traits (except root biomass at the first sampling date), as attested by the significant species × nitrogen treatment interaction (see Fig.  1E , Fig.  1F , Fig.  1G  and Fig.  1H  for the third sampling date). For example at the third sampling date, the shoot : root biomass ratio of Bromus hordeaceus was close to that of Echinochloa crus-galli at low soil-nitrogen and changed little with soil-nitrogen availability, whereas the ratio for E. crus-galli increased by about a factor of 6 with increasing nitrogen availability (Fig.  1H ). 
 Data from both experiments were pooled to calculate root traits representative of the vegetative growth period for each species in each nitrogen treatment. The consequences of pooling the data are analysed in detail in Appendix S2. Only the conclusions of these analyses are reported in this section. 
 Extreme root diameters reflect the capacity of plant species to produce thin and thick roots. Extreme diameters greatly varied among species (Fig.  2A  and Fig.  2B ). The minimal diameter (Dmin) varied by about a factor 2 among species, ranging from E. crus-galli with some very thin roots to Pisum sativum without very thin roots. The maximal diameter (Dmax) varied even more, with approximately a fourfold factor, ranging from T. botrys to E. crus-galli. Species also differed in terms of variation of root diameters within a root system, illustrated by the difference between Dmin and Dmax for each species. P. sativum varied least, with about a factor 5, while E. crus-galli varied most, with about a factor 21. For each trait, values at low soil-nitrogen were highly correlated to values at high soil-nitrogen (for both Dmin and Dmax, P-values < 0.001; Fig.  2A  and Fig.  2B ). The regression lines were not different from the y = x line (for Dmin, P-value = 0.97 and, for Dmax, P-value = 0.49), showing that soil-nitrogen availability did not affect extreme apical root diameter values. The minimal apical diameter was not different between experiments (Appendix S2). On the contrary, the maximal diameter was on average higher in Experiment 1 versus 2 (Appendix S2). However, the species were ranked similarly in both experiments, and the variations of maximal diameter due to the experiment effect were much lower than the variations due to the species effect. 
 In monocotyledonous species, the number of primary roots per plant at the earliest sampling date (PR1, measured using the data from the first sampling date in Experiment 2 only) varied among species by about a factor 2, from B. hordeaceus to A. myosuroides (Fig.  3A ). Increasing nitrogen availability did not affect PR1 in general, but the response of PR1 to nitrogen varied among species, as attested by the significant species per nitrogen interaction. The rate of primary roots emergence over time (logEM) was analysed via the slope of the regression between the logarithm of the number of primary roots and thermal time (Fig.  3B ). The slope was significant for each species × nitrogen treatment combination (P-values < 4.8 × 10 -10 ). Differences of logEM among species could reach about a factor 3, from Triticum aestivum to V . myuros. To a much lesser extent, increasing soil nitrogen slightly increased logEM. The trait logEM differed between experiments, with on average higher values in Experiment 1 (Appendix S2). However, variations between experiments were much lower than variations among species, and slightly lower than variations between nitrogen treatments. The number of primary roots per tiller (PR/T) was quantified by the slope of the regression between the numbers of primary roots and tillers (Fig.  3C ). The slope was significant for each species × nitrogen treatment combination (P-values < 2.6 × 10 -10 ); PR/T varied Log(1+Leaf area) Root biomass (g) A L O M Y B R O M O B R S N N C E N C Y E C H C G G E R M O M A T I N T R Z A S V L P M Y T E U B O T H L P E Log(1+Shoot:root ratio) Root biomass (g)   E-H ). They are shown on the transformed scales used to perform statistical analyses. The corresponding raw scales are on the right of each graph. The nine species experimented in both experiments are on the left of the dotted line. Species on the right were specific to only one experiment. Analysis of variance (ANOVA) was performed for each plant growth trait in each experiment, considering all the species per experiment; ANOVA results for the significant main effects (species and N for nitrogen) and interactions are shown as ** P < 0.01; *** P < 0.001. See Table  1  for full scientific names by species code. For (A-D), degrees of freedom: species 9, nitrogen 1, interaction 9, residuals 60. For (E-H): degrees of freedom: species 10, nitrogen 1, interaction 10, residuals 66.  A L O M Y B R O M O B R S N N C E N C Y E C H C G G E R M O M A T I N T R Z A S V L 
 Figure  2  Correlation between root apical diameters at low versus high soil nitrogen for (A) minimal diameters and (B) maximal diameters, for 12 species. Values for each species are calculated using the data from both experiments. Dotted lines indicate y = x lines, and full lines show regression lines. For minimal diameters, y = 1.00x + 0.00; r 2 = 0.92. For maximal diameters, y = 0.96x + 0.06; r 2 = 0.93. See Table  1  for full scientific names by species code. among species by about a factor 3, from V . myuros to E. crus-galli, while it was not affected by the nitrogen treatment. Differences between experiments did not affect PR/T (Appendix S2). 
 Root elongation was analysed via the slope (EL) of the regression of root elongation rate against apical diameter (Fig.  4 ). The slope was significant for each species × nitrogen treatment combination (P-values < 3.6 × 10 -3 ). The slope varied among species by about a threefold factor, from V . myuros to G. molle. It did not differ between nitrogen treatments (Fig.  4 ). 
 Root branching was characterised by the IBD, that is, the mean distance between two successive lateral roots (Fig.  5A ). Values varied with a threefold factor among species, from V . myuros to Matricaria perforata. Interbranch distance did not vary with the nitrogen treatment. Differences between experiments affected IBD but variations between experiments were much lower than variations among species (Appendix S2). The hierarchy between mother and lateral diameters was analysed considering the slope (HIER) of the linear regressions of the lateral versus mother diameters (Fig.  5B ). The slope was significant for each species × nitrogen treatment combination (P-values < 6.5 × 10 -9 ). It varied among species by about a threefold factor, from E. crus-galli to G. molle, but not between nitrogen treatments; HIER differed between experiments, with on average higher values in Experiment 1 (Appendix S2). However, variations between experiments were much lower than variations among species. 
 Root traits varied among weed species, suggesting differences in their ability to uptake soil-resources The studied root traits, corresponding to parameters of the ArchiSimple root model, characterised primary root emergence, root elongation and branching. They all differed among plant species. Statistical analyses confirmed these differences for the traits on which statistical analyses could be performed. So, the studied traits were shown to be useful indicators to analyse interspecific diversity of root architecture. This finding is consistent with previous studies also using traits corresponding to parameters of the ArchiSimple root model, in order to quantify interspecific differences  A good knowledge of the interspecific differences in root traits allows to hypothesise differences among species in their ability to take up nutrients, depending on their location and mobility. For instance, roots with a large diameter are known to be able to penetrate tough soil layers and to elongate faster  1  for full scientific names by species code. For (A): the vertical bar shows the LSD at 0.55 (degrees of freedom: species 4, nitrogen 1, interaction 4, residuals 30). For (B): Residual standard error 0.17 on 249 degrees of freedom. For (C): Residual standard error 17.43 on 240 degrees of freedom. thereby providing access to the deepest soil resources, such as water and leached nitrate  Besides, the combination of a high root density and thin diameter roots is generally associated to a high uptake efficiency of relatively immobile nutrients, such as phosphorus  1  for full scientific names by species code. Residual standard error 0.88 on 119 degrees of freedom. A L O M Y B R O M O B R S N N C E N C Y E C H C G G E R M O M A T I N P I B S A T R Z A S V L P M Y T E U B O T H L P E Slope of species. For instance, E. crus-galli and T. aestivum, with their ability to produce large diameter roots, could be good competitors for mobile resources such as water and nitrate. Besides, as shown in Fig.  6 , V . myuros, E. crus-galli, A. myosuroides, T. botrys and B. hordeaceus, with thin minimal diameters coupled to short IBDs (i.e. high branching density) could be adapted to the acquisition of poorly mobile resources, like phosphorus. This is especially the case for the monocotyledonous species V . myuros with its high rate of primary root emergence. In contrast, Centaurea cyanus, M. perforata, T. aestivum and P. sativum could be bad at taking up phosphorus because they lack very thin roots and/or their lateral root density is low (Fig.  6 ). Based on the present results, E. crus-galli would be a good competitor for both mobile and immobile soil resources due to its root traits. This hypothesis is consistent with studies on competition between E. crus-galli and Oryza sativa for nitrogen  Inter-branch distance (mm) 1 2 3 4 5 6 A L O M Y B R O M O B R S N N C E N C Y E C H C G G E R M O M A T I N T R Z A S V L P M Y T E U B O Nitrogen availability had a low impact on the studied root architecture traits In our experiments, increasing nitrogen availability strongly affected overall plant growth by increasing shoot biomass and shoot : root biomass ratio, in accordance with the literature (e.g.  A key result was that the studied root traits varied little with soil-nitrogen availability (depending on the trait, from no variation to a 1.1-fold factor between nitrogen treatments). These variations were much lower than variations among plant species (from a twofold to a fourfold factor, depending on the trait), even though nitrogen availability varied with a 17-fold factor between treatments, with significant impacts on plant biomass. By analogy with field situations, the low nitrogen treatment could represent a situation of very low soil-nitrogen availability that can occur during fallow while the high nitrogen treatment could represent situations of excess of nitrogen fertilisation, confirming the strong contrast between nitrogen treatments in our study. So, we calculated root-architecture traits that are nearly independent of nitrogen availability. Similar studies would be necessary to analyse whether these traits are also independent of other environmental factors, such as water or phosphorus availability, soil texture or structure. If this is confirmed, the present root-architecture traits could be considered as intrinsic species properties, independently of their environment, by analogy with the genetic traits sensu Tardieu  The low impact of nitrogen availability on the studied root traits is a key result that provides insight into the processes underlying root architecture. This unresponsiveness of the studied root traits to the nitrogen treatments strongly suggests that the rules governing plant root architecture, reflected by the root traits  Beyond the root traits corresponding to parameters of the ArchiSimple root model, we calculated an additional trait for monocotyledonous species -the number of primary roots per tiller, linking shoot and root features  The next step will be to assess the realism of the simulations provided by the model of root architecture for the different crop and weed species in different conditions of soil-nitrogen availability. Then, this root model, will be coupled to a cropping system model called FlorSys  Ann Appl Biol 171 (2017) 103-116 © 2017 Association of Applied Biologists 
			 Ann Appl Biol 171 (2017) 103-116 
			 © 2017 Association of Applied Biologists
Plant species vary widely in their potential growth rate. That is, when plants are grown under standardised, 'close to optimal' conditions, Relative Growth Rate RGR, the increase in plant mass per unit of mass present and per unit of time) varies threefold or more  In the following sections we analyse variation in RGR in terms of the growth model discussed above. The four parameters in this model summarise the carbon economy of the plant in a simple, but useful way. However, three points have to be borne in mind. First, variables like A a and NAR are not only dependent on external conditions, such as light intensity, but may be under control of processes within the plant as well such as the demand for photosynthates. Thus, where variation in A a may be the cause of variation in growth rate at one integration level, it can still be merely the result of an array of processes at a lower integration level (cf.  In this chapter we first present a case study on the causes of variation in growth rate of a wide range of herbaceous species. We then describe the tools by which we will be able to generalise across different experiments to what extent inherent variation in RGR is due to the various components. Subsequently, we will update previous compilations of the literature  
 Most comparative studies on interspecific variation in RGR and its underlying components require harvesting of large numbers of plants. To divide workload and avoid space limitations, experiments are carried out in several parts separated in time. This necessitates the use of growth rooms, where conditions can be kept constant through- The rate of photosynthesis of whole shoots as determined under growth conditions; (b) daily whole plant respiration as a percentage of daily photosynthesis; and (c), the concentration of C in the plant, plotted against the growth parameter NAR for 24 species differing in relative growth rate. Lines are the regression lines (for A a : p < 0.001, r 2 = 0.54, for Respiration/A a : 0.05 < p < 0.10, r 2 = 0.13, for [C]: p < 0.01, r 2 = 0.34). Data of  An analysis of the relative growth rate and its components for these 43 species is shown in Figure  2 , by plotting NAR and LAR against RGR. There is quite some variability in each of the parameters, with NAR and LAR showing up to a twofold difference at an intermediate RGR. Such variation implies that results from smallscale experiments, where just 2-4 species are compared, can be quite variable depending on the specific species selected. Taking all 43 species together, clearly the main variable determining variation in RGR is the LAR. NAR is not significantly correlated with RGR. Both components of LAR contribute to the positive correlation with RGR, with SLA being more important than LMR (Fig.  3 ). On average dicots have a higher LMR than monocots.   
 The case study presented in the previous section has been carried out with herbaceous species from Western-Europe, under a specific combination of environmental conditions. Many more experiments have been published in which differences in RGR between specific groups of species or genotypes were analysed. To enable a generalisation across these individual experiments, several approaches are possible. First, one could plot all data on, say, NAR and LAR against the corresponding RGR values in one graph, similar to Figure  2 . However, interpretation is a problem because experiments have been carried out under different conditions. Most species grow faster at high irradiance, with a concomitantly higher NAR but a lower LAR (cf. section 5.2). Mixing these phenotypic responses with genotypic differences will result in a bias, overestimating the importance of NAR and underestimating the importance of LAR. Therefore, one needs a parameter that is calculated for the data within each experiment and that can subsequently be used for comparisons across experiments. A possibility would be to compute correlation coefficients between RGR on the one hand, and parameters like NAR and LAR on the other hand. A high correlation coefficient would imply that variation in RGR (in terms of deviation from the overall mean) scales well with variation in, say, deviations from the mean in NAR. The use of correlation coefficients has two drawbacks. First, in the case where only 2 species are analysed, the correlation coefficient will always be 1. Second, the correlation coefficient considers relative variation around the mean, but does not take into account the absolute size of the variation. That is, if RGR varies between 100 and 400 mg g -1 day -1 and NAR varies between 10 and 13 g m -2 day -1 , correlation between RGR and NAR can be as high as when NAR varied between 10 and 40 g m -2 day -1 (Fig.  4 ). In the first case, however, NAR would only marginally contribute to variation in RGR, whereas NAR would be the sole component responsible in the second case. To allow for this we introduce the 'Growth Response Coefficient' (GRC). We define GRC X as the proportional difference in a particular growth parameter X (NAR, LAR, SLA or LMR), scaled to the proportional difference in RGR. In formula: (1) Full details on GRC and its calculation are given in Appendix 1. GRC will have a value of 1 if the change in X is fully proportional to the increase in RGR. A value of 0 indicates that the difference in RGR is not accompanied by any systematic difference in X. Values below 0 and above 1 may occur also, for example if a higher RGR for a given species is accompanied by both a lower NAR and a more than proportionally higher LAR (see Table  1  for some examples). In the experiment described in Section 2, GRC NAR equals 0.13 and GRC LAR equals 0.91.   
 
 To what extent can the results of the analysis in section 2 be generalised?  5 ). Those of SLA and LMR are 0.63 and 0.11, respectively. Thus, based on the averages for all experiments, we conclude that LAR, and more specifically SLA, is the most important factor explaining variation in RGR. NAR and LMR are of secondary importance. Given the strong correlation between NAR and A a , the implication of these results is that the rate of photosynthesis per unit leaf area is not a dominant factor associated with inherent differences in growth rate. Two caveats of the above analysis should be mentioned. First, results are as general as the range of species investigated in the literature, which shows a dominance for crop species and wild plants from Western Europe. Second, some experiments consist of just a few species and a relatively small range in RGR. As mean GRCs were calculated by simply averaging GRC data over all experiments, small-scale experiments could distort the analysis. Taking these differences into account, however, by weighing large-scale experiments with widely ranging RGRs stronger in the calculations than others does not affect the above conclusion. 
 
 Although the differences in average GRC NAR and GRC LAR are clear, there is considerable variation around the mean (Fig.  5 ). Is this just random variation, or does it vary systematically depending on the experimental conditions and the taxononomic group of species under investigation? We explore five possible explanations. First, it may be that the finding that NAR (and presumably A a is quantitatively not important in explaining variation in growth rate is a consequence of the low light intensities used in most studies. At low irradiance, there would hardly be any possibility for variation in A a between species, whereas at high light variation in A a could be more pronounced. Thus, it would be possible that low values of GRC NAR were found in experiments with a low light intensity, whereas the high values were observed in experiments with a high irradiance. Second, light intensity is generally fixed in growth chambers, whereas it may vary over the day from very low to intensities saturating for photosynthesis in glasshouses. Therefore, we analysed whether GRC NAR would be more important under glasshouse conditions or in the field than in growth chambers. Third, it has been suggested that monocotyledonous species differ in GRC NAR from dicots  2 ). Most contrasts do not differ significantly from each other, the only exceptions being GRC SLA at low and high daily quantum input (P < 0.05) and for glasshouse vs. growth chamber experiments. This suggests less of an association between LAR and RGR at higher light intensities. However, no such indications are found for NAR and LAR, and as they are based on a larger sample size we conclude that there is no increasing role for NAR with increasing irradiance. None of the other four factors was able to account for variation in GRC NAR and GRC LAR either, so that we still can not explain the observed variability. Of course, differential outcome between experiments may simply be a matter of differences in species selection. Larger-scale experiments with species from different environments and from different continents will be the only avenue towards better-founded generalisations. 
 In section 4.2, we concluded that differences in the light climate do not explain the observed variation in the outcome of the experiments. Nevertheless, we pay some more attention to this factor, as it is an environmental variable that can differ dramatically between experiments, and has by itself a profound effect on the growth of plants. Table  2 . Average GRC values for: A, experiments carried out with monocots or dicots; B, comparisons made within a given genus (or species), or with species from different genera; C, experiments with plants grown in pots on a solid substrate (with or without addition of nutrient solution) or hydroponically; D, growth chamber or glasshouse experiments; E, a daily quantum input (DQI) of 10 or 30 mol m -2 day -1 . For all 57 experiments listed in appendix 2 we scored the values for these attributes. For experiments where both monocots and dicots were included we calculated the GRC values for each group separately. Dummy variables were created with a score of 0 or 1 to discriminate between the two alternatives for each of the first 4 factors. The DQI values were calculated from data given by the authors. For glasshouse experiments where no DQI values were available, we assumed a value of 7.5 mol m 2 day 1 for experiments conducted in the northern hemisphere in November, December, January or February, a value of 15 mol m -2 day -1 for experiments in September, October, March or April, and a value of 25 mol m -2 day -1 for experiments in May, June, July or August. Experiments in the southern hemisphere were scored the other way around. Subsequently, we carried out a multiple regression with each of the GRC values as the dependent variable, and the 5 attributes as independent variables. Thereafter, mean differences between groups were calculated, while controlling for differences in the other 4 attributes by giving them an intermediate value (0.5 for A to D, 20 for E). Values in bold indicate significant effects (P < 0.05).  
 
 In nature, light intensity follows a sinusoidal pattern, with a maximum peak light intensity in the photosynthetically active spectrum around 2000 µmol m 2 s -1 . Compared to these values, irradiance in most experiments carried out in growth rooms is low, with values generally ranging between 125 µmol m -2 s -1 (e.g.,  Clearly, the 4-to 16-fold difference in peak light intensity between the field and the growth room is reduced to a 1.5-to 5-fold difference when the values integrated over the day are considered. This implies that the daily quantum input differs by far less than peak light intensity  To what extent is RGR determined by (peak) light intensity and to what extent by total daily quantum input? To answer this question we carried out an experiment which we grew 2 species, Hordeum vulgare and Helianthus annuus, in a growth chamber at three light intensities (125, 250 and 500 µmol m -2 s -1 ) and at three light periods (5, 10 and 20 h). Thus, we could analyse the effect of different light intensities at a given light period and of different light periods at a given light intensity. Moreover, due to the levels and durations used, we can compare for a given DQI whether it makes a difference to have a high light intensity over a short light period or a low light intensity during a long light period. In Figure  6a , RGR of the two species is plotted against the daily quantum input. Lines connect observations for plants grown in the same light period. RGR is low at a low DQI, and shows an increase with higher levels, coming close to saturation around 20 mol m -2 day -1 . Similar experiments with different combinations of light intensity and duration have been carried out by  6b ). In fact, the observed patterns seem to be quite general. In all cases where RGR is determined for herbaceous species at various DQIs, RGR max is realised around 20 mol m 2 day 1 (Fig.  6c ). This is a somewhat different conclusion from that of  To what extent do different combinations of light intensity and duration at a given DQI yield different results? The main pattern for the 5 studies shown in Figures  6a  and 6b  is that results are almost independent of the light intensity used: generally a short light period with a high light intensity yields the same RGR as a long period with a low light intensity. Only in the case of tomato  level or with step changes in light intensity. They did not find any difference in biomass accumulation between treatments. In these cases, however, the maximum light intensity was still low and probably not sufficient to saturate photosynthesis. A difference was found for Betula seedlings, grown in an experimental garden in shade cages or in simulated forest gaps  
 It has been known for long that light has opposing effects on NAR and LAR  7a, b ). The increased LAR is almost fully due to increases in SLA, whereas LMR remains constant (Figs  7c, d ). It would be useful to have a parameter that summarises the various experiments by just one or two numbers, and to include those experiments where DQI was not determined. Therefore, we chose an approach, where we took the change in RGR as the basis of the comparison and calculated for each individual species to what extent and in which direction a change in RGR was accompanied by a change in the different growth parameters. In fact, this is the same analysis as that of the GRCs presented in section 3, with the differences in RGR now being caused by differences in irradiance rather than that by comparing faster-and slower-growing species. The relationships between NAR or LAR on the one hand and RGR on the other are partly curved and, consequently, the GRCs obtained represent average changes in growth parameters, approaching the real changes best at intermediate light intensities. In total we analysed 24 reports with 49 growth vs. irradiance curves. A summary of the GRC values is given in Figure  8 . An increase in RGR by a factor 1 is, on average, accompanied by an increase in NAR of a factor 2. This is compensated for   
 It is a key question what causes the strong negative relation between NAR (more specifically A a and LAR (more specifically SLA). Such a negative relation can be found for plants grown at various irradiances or atmospheric CO 2 concentrations. Interestingly, it can also be observed in genotypes where a lower A a is due to lower chlorophyll or Rubisco levels (Table  3 ). The simplest explanation is that high-light grown plants accumulate more photosynthetic compounds per unit leaf area, which increases photosynthetic capacity but at the same time decreases SLA. This is best illustrated by considering the inverse of SLA, the leaf mass per unit area. Suppose a low-light grown leaf would have a mass of 25 g per m 2 leaf area, 5 g of which are invested in 'photosynthetic compounds'. Let us also assume that photosynthetic capacity is proportional to the amount of photosynthetic compounds. Doubling photosynthetic capacity would then require an extra 5 g, resulting in a total leaf of 30 g m -2 . This would by itself suffice to cause a slight negative relation between A a and SLA. However, the negative relation is stronger than that. In the hypothetical example, the concentration of photosynthetic compounds expressed on a leaf mass basis would increase from 20 to 33%. In reality, photosynthetic capacity per unit leaf mass is similar for low-light and high-light grown plants  8 . The reason that the increase in investment of photosynthetic compounds coincides with an increased investment in non-photosynthetic material might be that larger and/or more mesophyll cells have to be formed to ensure good contact between chloroplasts and intercellular spaces (see  Table  3 . Percentage increase in A a of individual leaves, SLA, LMR and RGR, of low-light grown plants (200 µmol m -2 s -1 ) compared to high-light grown plants (1000 µmol m -2 s -1 ), plants grown at elevated CO 2 (700 µl l - 1 ) compared to control CO 2 levels (350 (µl l -1 ), and of variegated (non-chlorophyllous for part of the leaves) and antisense Rubisco plants compared to wildtype plants, nd, not determined. It has been suggested that plants respond to high irradiance by maximising photosynthetic capacity, whereas they respond to low light by maximising light interception. As discussed above, this would coincide with high-light grown plants having a low SLA and low-light plants having a high SLA. Following this strategy would enable a plant to maximise carbon gain at both high and low irradiance. Such a hypothesis does not fit, however, with experiments where light conditions are suddenly altered during growth. Plants grown at low light that are transferred to highlight conditions grow faster or have higher carbon gain than plants acclimated to high light  
 An alternative explanation for the temporarily faster growth of low-light plants at high light is that plants grown at high irradiance do not necessarily maximise carbon gain. In fact, such a conclusion could also be drawn from Figure  6c , where RGR was found to be relatively constant over a wide range of DQIs. Why are plants not able to grow faster when DQI increases beyond a value of 20 mol m -2 day -1 ? It is clear, for example from studies on CO 2 enrichment, that source:sink interactions may play a role in shaping the C-economy of the plant. An increased rate of photosynthesis due to a doubling in CO 2 concentration often results in a downward acclimation of photosynthesis and a decrease in SLA, mainly due to accumulation of non-structural carbohydrates. If growth would be constrained by internal factors, such as the formation of new sinks in the plants, the result could be that the increased photosynthetic rate, almost inevitably at high irradiance, has to be counterbalanced by a decrease in SLA. Although not easily testable, this is an alternative hypothesis that should be seriously considered. If found to be true, it would have important ramifications, not only for understanding the response of plants to light intensity, but also in the analysis of the causes of variation in growth rate between fast-and slow-growing species. 
 In the meta-analysis of section 4.2, we found no indication that experiments carried out at high DQI result in a more important role for NAR in explaining inherent variation in RGR than those conducted at lower quantum input. This is only an indirect indication, however, as different species are compared in different experiments. A more direct test would be to grow different species at various light intensities, and assess in what direction and to what extent the underlying components are going to change. We carried out such an analysis with two grass species (Holcus lanatus and Deschampsia flexuosa), that were grown at a light intensity twice higher (630 µmol m -2 s -1 ) or half that (150 µmol m -2 s -1 ) of the experiment on the 43 species, described in Section 2. More details are given in the legend of Table  4 . Growth parameters alter as expected from section 5.2, with an increase in RGR with increasing DQI, due to an increase in NAR and a decrease in LAR. For this specific case, a decrease in LMR was also observed. As far as the relative difference between the species is concerned, we conclude from this experiment that there is some support for the the-ory that NAR becomes more important in explaining variation in RGR when DQI increases. Even at the highest DQI, however, differences in RGR were explained more by LAR than by NAR, GRC NAR being 0.27 only. Table  4 . The effect of low (160 µmol m -2 s -1 ; DQI = 8 mol nr 2 day 1 ) and high (630 µmol m -2 s -1 ; DQI = 32 mol m -2 day -1 ) irradiance on RGR and the components NAR, LAR, SLA and LMR of the slow-growing grass Deschampsia flexuosa (Df) and the fast-growing grass Holcus lanatus (Hl). Other conditions were as described by  9 ). From the scarce literature available, we conclude that there is no evidence for an increasing importance of NAR, and a decreasing importance of LAR in explaining inherent variation in RGR with increasing irradiance. On the con-trary, these data are fully in line with the conclusion drawn in the meta-analysis (section 4.2), that GRCs are independent of quantum input. Parameter The analyses in this chapter have been confined to herbaceous species, with an emphasis on crop species and wild species occurring along a nutrient-poor to nutri-entrich gradient.  
 In this chapter we described an approach to compare results across experiments, enabling generalisations on the causes of variation in RGR. Analysed from the perspective of the carbon economy, inherently fast-growing species achieve a higher growth rate mainly because they develop relatively more leaf area per unit plant mass. The main cause for this difference is the higher SLA of the fastgrowing species. Differences in the physiological activity per unit leaf area are less important. It is therefore of main interest to analyse what factors cause the difference in SLA between species. These conclusions are basically independent of the daily quantum input during the experiment, the type of rooting substrate used, the order from which the plants are taken (monocots or dicots), and also independent of the fact whether species are from the same genus or not. Therefore, it remains unclear why different experiments may yield different results. A third topic that warrants more study is the strong negative relation between NAR and LAR. What are the mechanisms that cause SLA to increase if photosynthesis is decreased and vice versa, causing RGR to be relatively stable under varying conditions. Answers to these questions would greatly enhance our insight into the regulation of the growth of plants. 
 If we assume that the In-transformed growth components are linearly related to the ln-transformed RGR values over the whole RGR trajectory under study, then the ratio of the differences holds for infinite small differences as well. In that case, (A7) which equals the definition of GRC given in section 3. Note that GRC X values represent the relative change in parameter X divided by the relative change in RGR, and, consequently, are without dimensions. This concept was used before in a slightly different way by  
 List of 57 experiments and GRC values used in the compilation. Data presented by  2 . plant growth (high fertilisation rates, high rainfall). Competition for light can be defined as the acquisition of a shared resource (see  
 Light is an essential resource for plant growth, as it is the driving force of photosynthesis, which produces the carbohydrates necessary for growth, development, and maintenance. Light acquisition relies on four processes: (i) interception of light by the plant leaf surface, (ii) conversion of light into energy which is used to synthesise carbohydrates, (iii) carbohydrates demand, and (iv), allocation of carbohydrates to the different plant organs for their growth, maintenance, and activity. Neighbouring plants can affect the quantity and quality of light received by a given plant  Assessing the efficiency of the processes of light interception, light conversion, and carbohydrate demand and use may require extensive physiological studies. Studies to identify the most suitable plants to control weeds by light competition cannot be undertaken easily for a large range of cover plants. In this context, new tools and methods are needed to characterise the light competition abilities of a range of potential cover plant species in a tractable way. Trait-based approaches, which originated in the field of comparative functional ecology, have a high potential. They are based on the use of functional traits, i.e. morpho-physio-phenological features, which are measurable at the plant level, and which have an impact on plant performances  In ecology, a combination of traits defines a strategy, and strategies confer different relative advantages  Although trait-based approaches have been extensively used in natural ecosystems for decades, applications of these approaches to systems such as managed grasslands  Following these works, we undertook deeper investigations into the trait-based characterisation of the abilities cover plant species to compete for light with the goal of introducing them in innovative banana cropping systems. Our aim was to characterise the light competition strategies of a range of species on the basis of a small number of traits related to both acquisition of light and their aboveground interference abilities. To do so, we asked the following questions: (i) What are the light acquisition strategies of our panel of plant species? (ii) What are their aboveground interference abilities and are they related to light acquisition strategies? (iii) What are the light competition strategies of our plant species? (iv) How could they be used to facilitate the choice of the best cover plant species? To answer these questions, we conducted a six-month field experiment on 21 species (two banana cultivars, 17 cover plant species and two weed species) cultivated individually without limited resources-assuming this enables to assess their growth potential in the field and then competition potential-, and measured a set of functional traits linked to competition for light. 
 
 The field experiment was conducted to characterise two dessert banana cultivars, 17 cover plant species, and two weed species (Table  1 ). The two banana cultivars were the cultivar '902' (Musa AAA, Cavendish subgroup, Bcav), which is currently used for produce bananas for export all over the world, and the hybrid cultivar 'Cirad925' (Musa AAA, a new synthetic hybrid from CIRAD, B925), which shows improved resistance to Mycosphaerella fijiensis. The two weed species were chosen because of their ubiquitous presence in banana cropping systems in the French West Indies and the problems they cause worldwide. Cover plant species were chosen among a collection of tropical cover plant species studied by CIRAD in the French West Indies. The experiment was conducted at the CIRAD experimental station of Neufchâteau in Guadeloupe (French West Indies, 16 • 04 48 N, 61 • 35 53 W, 263 m asl), for a period of six months (24 April-6 November 2013), in a 0.4 ha field previously used as fallow and destroyed with herbicides and spading before the experiment. Four plants per species, corresponding to four repetitions, were sown manually in separate 16 m 2 plots distributed randomly within 6 blocs in the field. The soil was an andosol. Mean total solar radiation was 462 +/-40 MJ m 2 month -1 . Plants were grown under a rainfed regime. Cumulated precipitation was 2829 mm. The mean temperature was 25.6 • C during the experiment and temperatures ranged from 22.8 • C to 29.7 • C. Fifty grams of urea (46% N) fertilizer was applied at the base of each plant at the beginning of the experiment to ensure non-limiting plant nitrogen nutrition. Weeds around the plants were regularly removed by hand to ensure non-limiting conditions of plant growth and to assess their growth and development potential. Depending on the length of species life cycle, traits were measured at mid-flowering, i.e. when half the twigs had flowered, or after six months, i.e. at the end of the experiment, for species with longer cycles. 
 The methodological framework we used to characterise the light acquisition strategies of plant species was based on three steps: first, the selection of traits described in the literature, trait measurements, and a second selection of traits based on statistical analyses. We proceeded based on the assumption that the four processes related to light acquisition (light interception, light conversion, carbohydrates demand, carbohydrate allocation) can be assessed by different traits (Table  2 ). Light interception was assessed by the volume of interception and the occupation of the volume. The volume of interception was defined as the volume occupied by the plant described by plant height (H) and plant crown width (CW)  The aboveground interference abilities, an indication of the aggressiveness of the plants, were assessed according to expert knowledge with four categories of growth habit: twining species, hereafter referred to as "lianas", able to climb on other plants; creeping species with adventitious roots on twigs, able to pin down neighbouring plants to the ground, and preferentially growing horizontally; semi-erect-creeping species with adventitious roots on twigs, able to pin down neighbouring plants to the ground and growing both vertically and horizontally, and erect species preferentially growing vertically, able to shade their neighbours. 
 At one sampling date per species, vegetative height and plant crown width were measured with a tape measure. A first sample of leaves was harvested precociously at the top of each plant, according to standardized protocols for the measurement of SLA  The rest of the aboveground organs of the plants were separated into two components: leaf blades and petioles/stems. Each component was weighed separately after 48 h at 70 • C (dry biomasses). Total leaf dry biomass was calculated by summing the dry leaf biomass of the sample used for the determination of SLA and the rest of the dry leaf biomass. BM a was calculated by summing the dry biomass of each component: stems, leaf blades, and petioles. LMF a was calculated by dividing the leaf dry biomass by the BM a . The plant total leaf area was calculated by multiplying the total dry leaf biomass by the SLA. The LAR a was obtained by dividing the total leaf area by BM a (Table  2 ). 
 All statistical analyses were performed using R 3.1.1 software (alpha = 0.05)  
 
 Our panel of plant species displayed marked variations in the values of all the functional traits (Table  2 ). Mean trait values and standard deviations are available for each species see Appendix. For instance, the liana weed species P had the biggest LAR a which was four times as big as that of the banana cultivars. The two banana cultivars had low SLA and LDMC, whereas the two weed species had high SLA and low LDMC, revealing the particularly good resource acquisition abilities of the weeds compared to banana. We then analysed the correlations between the traits we measured to search for synergies or trade-offs between some of them. High BM a was more related to a high plant CW ( = 0.84, p < 0.001) than to a high H ( = 0.45, p < 0.001) (Table  3 ). H and CW were not correlated in the whole panel of species (Table  3 ) but positively correlated with different relationships, depending on the erect, semi-erect-creeping and twining growth habit (P < 0.001 and r 2 = 0.59 for erect species, P < 0.001 and r 2 = 0.99 for semi-erectcreeping growth habit species, and P = 0.01 and r 2 = 0.37 for twining species, Fig.  1A ). No correlation was found between H and CW in the creeping growth habit species (P = 0.88). As shown in Fig.  1B  and in Table  3 , SLA and LDMC were negatively correlated ( = -0.5, P < 0.001). The cover plant species included the whole range of SLA and LDMC values. Species such as Dolichos lablab, had a high SLA and a low LDMC, while others, such as Stylosanthes guianensis, had a low SLA and a high LDMC. Species with an erect growth habit had higher LDMC and lower SLA than the species with other growth habits. A negative correlation was found between LAR a and H (-= 0.55, P < 0.001, Table  3 , Fig.  1C ) and, as in the case of the relationships between SLA and LDMC, the species were grouped according to their growth habit: erect species were in the upper part of the relationship and had a higher H and a lower LAR a than the other species. The banana cultivars had a high H and a low LAR a whereas the weed species had the opposite. 
 PCA analysis with two axes explained most of the variability between our 21 species; contained five traits and explained 80% of total variability (Fig.  2 .). Axis 1 explained 46% of variability, while axis 2 explained 34%. SLA and LAR a contributed significantly (32% and 21% respectively) to axis 1, BM a and H contributed significantly (35% and 22%, respectively) to axis 2, and plant CW contributed to both axes (22% to axis 1 and 21% to axis 2, Fig.  2A ). 
 Projections of individuals on the two-dimensional PCA space showed that species were well separated from each other, indicating lower intraspecific than interspecific variability (Fig.  2B , each ellipse corresponds to one species). Functional groups of cover plant species with similar trait values could not be visually distinguished (Fig.  2B ). Rather, the species were located along a continuum between H and SLA and along a gradient of BM a . The trade-off H vs. LAR a can be clearly seen in Fig.  2B , while the trade-off SLA vs. LDMC was represented with the extreme acquisitive strategy marker i.e. SLA. The cover plant species were on a continuum from tall species with a high BM a, such as Ricinus communis, to shorter species favouring resource investment in leaf area (high LAR a ) with highly efficient photosynthesis (high SLA), such as Arachis pintoï (Fig.  2B ). The two banana cultivars were located close to one another and were separate from the cover plant and weed species, with a high H, a medium BM a and a low SLA. They were positioned at the end of the cover plant species continuum with tall plants. At the opposite end, the two weeds species Bidens pilosa and Momordica charantia combined a high SLA and a high LAR a . The two liana cover plant species, D. lablab and Pueraria phaseolides, were isolated from the other species with high BM a , high CW and high SLA. 
 To investigate possible links between light acquisition strategies and interference abilities, we analysed the projection of individuals' growth habit on the PCA axes. The ellipses representing growth habit in Fig.  2C  showed that the twining species had higher SLA and LAR a values than semi-erect-creeping and creeping species, which, in turn, had higher SLA and LAR a values than erect species. The means of projection of the coordinates of growth habits on axis 1 differed significantly (p < 0.001). Semi-erect-creeping and creeping species showed similar SLA and LAR a values but semierect-creeping species had a bigger BM a . 
 Competition for light by plants involves complex physiological processes which are difficult to measure and no method is available to easily and rapidly compare and choose cover plant species according to their light competition strategies. Our study identified the light acquisition strategies of 21 tropical species with five functional traits along with their interference abilities. Combining these two levels of information enabled us to define light competition strategies. Few studies have measured traits on plant species used in tropical agrosystems, e.g.  Among the ecological trade-offs revealed by studies on wild species, two were of a particular interest to compare the light acquisition strategies of our plant species. The first, based on LDMC and SLA, revealed, at the leaf level, strategies of conservation and acquisition of resources respectively  1B  compares the distribution of our tropical cultivated species in the trade-off between SLA and LDMC considering the equation established by  At the level of the individual plant, the second trade-off opposed the investment of carbohydrates in a support structure for height (i.e. the trunk) vs. in photosynthetic structure (i.e. leaf area)  
 We assumed that the trade-offs and ecological strategies described above can help identify good competitors for light. At the leaf level, a good competitor would maximise leaf area instead of tissue density to optimise light acquisition rather than conserving resources. At the plant level, a good competitor could either maximise height to intercept light above neighbouring plants or maximise leaf area production per unit of biomass to ensure a large area of acquisition of light and quickly cover the soil. We also assumed that these trade-offs are not sufficient for a comprehensive assessment of the light acquisition strategies of the plant, particularly because they do not describe the volume of interception of the plant and carbohydrates demand. The principal component analysis (PCA) we performed provided a good description of the differences in potential light competitive effect among plant species, with five traits among the eight calculated. These five traits described the light interception structure (H, CW), the efficiency of light conversion (SLA), the carbohydrates demand (BM a ) and carbohydrates allocation within the plant (LAR a ). The three other traits we calculated (LDMC, LMF a , LSA) did not sufficiently distinguish our species compared to these five traits. We thus hypothesise that LDMC was not needed to distinguish the species studied here because it was highly correlated with SLA, which distinguished species well. The LMF a turned out to be less useful than LAR a to describe resource allocation. LSA is a good trait to differentiate light acquisition abilities between erect species, because it is a proxy of the leaf area index used for tree canopies  The five traits selected in the PCA revealed three extreme strategies of light acquisition, which are located at the extremities of the continuum of plants strategies we identified by measuring traits. The first strategy consists in maximising the production of leaf area per unit of biomass at the leaf level (SLA) or at the plant level (LAR a ). Plants with this strategy maximise the occupation of their volume of interception of light with light acquisition organs. A. pintoï and the weed B. pilosa are examples of this strategy. A second strategy consists in investing resources in a support structure (trunk or stem) to grow in height or in width and then to maximise their volume of interception. Musa acuminata and R. communis are examples of this strategy. The last strategy consists in maximising both leaf area and crown width, i.e. maximising their volume of interception and its occupation. D. lablab and P. phaseoloides are examples of this strategy. In our study, only lianas used the third strategy, suggesting that light acquisition strategies and interference abilities may, in some cases, overlap. 
 The projection of the growth habits on the PCA, from erect species to twining species, is consistent with the hypothesis of a trade-off between vertical growth by production of structures   
 The association of growth habit, an indicator of interference abilities, with the PCA representation of light acquisition strategies enabled us to identify extreme light competition strategies. Plants which invest carbohydrates in a support structure to grow in height (trunk) are in our case only erect plant species. These species have a "shading" competition strategy, with no physical action on neighbours. Their ability to develop support structures in height allows them to be in the top layers of the canopy, and therefore to increase access to light and to shade neighbouring plants. Plants which invest carbohydrates both in support structures to grow in width (stems) and in light acquisition structure (leaves) are twining species which produce large quantities of biomass. They grow rapidly with efficient acquisition of resources. Their ability to climb on their neighbours enables them to grow at top of the canopy where most of the light is available, without producing any support structure in height. They affect supporting plants both mechanically, by making them carry their weight  Plants which invest in leaf area production with rapid growth can be either creeping and semi-erect-creeping species or twining species. When they are creeping and semi-erect-creeping species, they are able to grow horizontally, to invest biomass in leaf area expansion, and to re-root in the soil by developing adventitious roots on their twigs. They have an "obstruction" competition strategy conferred by their ability to cover the soil and to avoid the germination and the emergence of weeds. When they are twining species, they have the ability to smother weeds, as described above, but in this case they are less aggressive. They have a "weak smothering" competition strategy. As high biomass production can increase the effect of competition (den  
 Characterising the light competition strategies of cover plant species can be used to identify candidate species which could control weeds by competing for light in banana cropping systems. However, competitive abilities against weeds are not the only constraint to take into account. The best cover plant to control weeds in banana cropping systems also need to (i) be shade tolerant and not to compete with banana for resources when used during the banana production cycles, (ii) to survive full exposure to light and avoid restriction on its competitiveness for resource acquisition when used in fallows. Although we did not study the reproduction stage of our plant species, the quantity of seed produced and their germination power are part of their competitive ability to survive in the environment. Other services, like nematode regulation and restauration of the soil physical and chemical fertility, are also expected during these two stages  Cover plants can be used to control weeds during two stages of the sequence of banana cropping systems: fallow and the following banana cycles. By focusing on light competition between cover plants and weeds and between cover plants and banana, we can propose hypotheses on the ideal strategies expected for these two stages. Concerning fallow occurring before banana plantation, cover plants species are required which occupy a large area to control weeds but with no limitation in height because there are no banana plants to damage. We assumed that plants with a high demand can have a stronger competitive impact on weeds (den  2B ). We can assume that species with high biomass production and a smothering and obstruction strategy maximising leaf and crown width growth would be well adapted to control weeds at this stage provided that they are able to survive full light. In our panel, the cover plants species closest to this description are D. lablab and P. phaseolides, which were very similar in width extension and high biomass production, and the third closest was B. ruziziensis with high biomass production only. Banana producers are currently testing B. ruziziensis in fallows, but, according to the results of our characterisation, using D. lablab or P. phaseolides could be a good solution. During banana production cycles, an increase in width instead of height is preferred to minimise competition for light with banana, low demand and maximisation of the leaf area per unit of mass are expected, respectively, to minimise competition with banana for soil resources and to increase the acquisition area and the plant shade power. In term of traits, this implies a high SLA, a high CW and a low H, a low BM a and a high LAR a (IS inter, Fig.  2B ). We hypothesise that species with light biomass production with a smothering and obstruction strategy maximising leaf area would be suitable to control weeds at this stage provided that they are shade tolerant. In the panel of covert plant species tested in our study, the species closest to this description were N. wightii and A. pintoï, suggesting they could be the most effective plant species to compete with weeds for light without negatively affecting the growth of banana. In banana cropping systems, lianas have the disadvantage to climb on and damage banana plants and require additional technical management operations by producers. Despite of this, the liana N. wightii is currently tested as cover plant species by producers because this leguminous species has the major advantage to have a root niche different than that of banana (unpublished data) making it particularly adapted to banana intercropping by minimizing the soil resources competition. The creeping species A. pintoï is also currently tested in association by banana producers. 
 This paper describes a new framework that was used to characterise the light competition strategies of 21 species including one main crop species and potential cover plant and weed species for banana cropping systems. The use of five functional traits made it possible to distinguish light acquisition abilities and to hypothesize on light competitive strategies by taking into account the plant's interference abilities. Associated with other strategies suited to the constraints of the fallow and the banana production cycles of the banana cropping system, this characterisation of species' light competition strategies will help choose the best cover plant species. This framework is a promising basis to develop a tool to choose cover plants according to their competitive abilities. It remains to be validated in competitive experiments, in which the efficiency of each light competition strategy is compared. What is more, biological weed control is possible in another way than competition for light, by competition for nutrients and water for example. An interesting extension would be the study of belowground competition using a similar trait-based approach. 
 Mean ± standard deviation of light competition functional traits of the species studied and their growth habit (E, erect; C, creeping; S-E-C, semi-erect-creeping; T, twining). In
Cover plants can provide agroecosystem services. For instance, they may improve resource use efficiency or control soil erosion and pests  Weed control by cover plants relies mainly on competition for available resources between the cover plant and the weed species. When choosing a cover plant for an association with the cash crop, the challenge is to maximise competition with weeds while minimising competition with the cash crop so as to avoid negative impacts on crop growth and yield. There can be aboveground competition between species for light and/or belowground competition for water and nutrients. In agroecosystems with a tall cash crop such as banana, the cash crop: weed competition for light is limited to a short period after crop planting, when the cash crop plants are still small. Belowground competition occurs throughout the crop cycle, probably because cash crop and weed plants share a similar spatial niche in the soil. This suggests that cover plants cannot be used to compete with weeds for soil resources without also generating competition with banana for the same resources. Weed control using cover plants should aim to maximise competition with weeds while minimising competition with banana. This could be achieved using cover plants with above-and belowground spatial niches that differ from those of banana  Trait-based approaches, originally developed in the field of comparative functional ecology, are a promising way to screen plant species for their ability to provide ecosystem services  In a previous study  Plant root systems may have different architectures, which dictates their ability to grow depthwise and widthwise and to produce many roots. Plants thus have different soil exploration capacities  1 ). Besides, the ability of a plant to acquire soil resources within this soil zone can be assessed through its capacity to take up soil resources and transport them efficiently. Two root economic spectrum traits reflect these processes (Table  1 ): specific root length (with a high value reflecting an acquisitive strategy) and root diameter (with a high value reflecting a conservative strategy). Using the same species panel as in our previous study  doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0173066.t001 6-month field experiment, which is the maximum cycle duration of the annual cover crops studied, where plants were cultivated individually in classical soil and climate conditions for banana production. 
 
 A field experiment was conducted to measure traits related to the exploration of both aboveground and belowground spatial niches and resource acquisition in 17 cover plant species and two weed species commonly found in banana cropping systems ( ). The plots were randomly distributed in the field. The soil was an andosol (FAO World reference base for soil resources). at the beginning of the experiment, the soil contained, 59.4 g organic matter kg -1 , 34.4 g C kg -1 , 3.5 g N kg -1 and 0.6 g P kg -1 on average, with a pH of 5.6. Fifty grams of urea fertilizer (46% of nitrogen) were applied at the base of each plant at the beginning of the experiment to ensure non-limiting nitrogen nutrition. Weeds that grew spontaneously around the plants were regularly removed by hand to ensure non-limiting growth conditions and to assess the growth potential of the tested species. Plants were grown under a rainfed regime with cumulated precipitation of 2,829 mm. The mean daily temperature was 25.6˚C, ranging from 22.8˚C to 29.7˚C. Mean total solar radiation was 462 +/-40 MJ.m -2 .month -1 . 
 Plant species were characterised with traits that accounted for soil exploration and resource acquisition. The traits are listed in Table  1  along with the main associated functions. We considered the four traits listed in the Introduction: the median zone explored by the roots (Z), total root-impact density (DI), specific root length (SRL) and root diameter (D). In addition, we described root distribution in the spatial niche with two markers, i.e. the DI values in two soil layers (0-20 cm and 40-80 cm). 
 Aboveground traits  For belowground traits, a 1-m deep and 1-m wide trench was dug 20 cm from the base of the plant. The root intersections in the vertical soil profile were counted on a 5 cm × 5 cm mesh. The median root depth was calculated as the depth at which 50% of the root intersections were visible, and the median root width as the width at which 50% of the root intersections were visible. The median zone explored by the roots (Z) was calculated as the product of the median depth and median width. Median values were chosen to describe the zone where half of the roots-and presumably half of the acquisition-were present irrespective of the form of the root system. The total root-impact density (DI) was calculated as the number of visible root intersections divided by the surface area of the soil explored by the roots in a vertical soil profile. Like DI, the root-impact density per soil layer was calculated independently for the two soil layers (0-20 and 40-80 cm). For instance, in the 0-20 cm layer, DI was the number of visible root intersections between 0 and 20 cm soil depth divided by the surface area of the soil explored by the roots between 0 and 20 cm. For each cover plant species, the root-impact density was expressed relative to that of the Cavendish banana cultivar (Bcav) to assess the complementarity of the spatial niche in the two species. In the 0-20 soil layer: Δ0-20 = DI Bcav 0-20 -DI Cover plant 0-20 . In the 40-80 soil layer: Δ 40-80 = DI Bcav 40-80 -DI Cover plant 40-80 . The root-impact densities were analysed (i) in the 0-20 cm layer, where resources were plentiful due to fertilisation and (ii) in the 40-80 cm layer where nitrates were leached by rain. In addition, for each plant, three 1000-cm 3 soil samples were removed in the form of 10 Ã 10 Ã 10 cm cubes. The first sample was taken at the base of the plant at a depth of 0 to 10 cm, the second sample was taken under the base of the plant at a depth corresponding to half the maximum depth, and the third sample was taken at half the maximum width and depth. Each sample was washed to collect fine and coarse roots. The roots were scanned at 400 dots per inch (Epson expression 10000XL Pro scanner). The length and diameter of each root sample were measured with WinRHIZO Pro 2009a software (Regent Instruments, Quebec, Canada). The root diameter (D) was calculated by averaging the root diameters in three cubes per plant. The root contents of the three soil cubes were then pooled and weighed after drying for 72 h at 70˚C to evaluate root dry biomass. The specific root length (SRL) was calculated by dividing the total length of the roots in the three samples by their root dry biomass. For aboveground traits, the specific leaf area (SLA) was measured on three green leaves taken from the top of the plants using standard protocols  
 All statistical analyses were performed with R 3.1.1 software (alpha = 0.05)  
 
 Mean values and coefficients of variation of functional traits across species are listed in Table  1  and the details for each species in the panel are listed in S1 Table . Traits exhibited marked variations among species. The trait with the largest (25-fold) difference among species was the median root exploration zone (Z) which ranged from 52 cm 2 (T. patula) to 1323 cm 2 (P. phaseolides). Root diameter (D) was the trait with the smallest (9-fold) difference among species, ranging from 0.22 (B. pilosa) to 1.99 mm (D. lablab). 
 Z was positively correlated with D and negatively correlated with the total root-impact density (DI) and specific root length (SRL) (Table  3  and Fig   The weed species BP had a smaller Z and a higher DI than the banana cultivars (Fig  1 ). The cover plant species had a wide range of Z, and B. ruziziensis was unique as it had a very high DI and an intermediate Z. As shown in Fig  2 , the two weed species had smaller root diameters, D, than the banana cultivars and a much higher SRL. The roots of the cover plant species had intermediate D and SRL values compared to that of weed species and banana cultivars. The section below the diagonal presents the Spearman's ranked correlation coefficient (n = 82). The section above the diagonal presents the P-value associated with the correlations. Significant correlations are in bold. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0173066.t003 
 A principal component analysis of the 21 species, with four traits related to soil resource exploitation strategies, explained 73% of total variability on two axes (Fig  3a) . Axes 1 and 2 explained 51% and 22% of variability, respectively. SRL, Z and D contributed (30%, 23% and 30%, respectively) to axis 1 while DI contributed (62%) to axis 2. Axis 1 differentiates plant species with high D and high Z (on the right) from plant species with high SRL and high DI (on the left). Axis 2 differentiates plant species according to their DI values.   
 We characterised species for soil-resource exploitation traits (this study) and light exploitation traits  4 ). Among the correlations, Z was positively correlated with aboveground dry biomass (Bma), height (H) and crown width (CW). Bma was positively correlated with D and negatively correlated with SRL. H and CW were positively correlated with D and negatively correlated with SRL. To analyse links between strategies for the exploitation of soil resources on the one hand and light on the other, PCA was performed on the 21 species with the four traits explaining   2  for the species names. (n = 4 replicates for all species except BD (n = 3)). doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0173066.g002 soil-resource exploitation and the five traits explaining light exploitation (Fig  4 ). PCA showed that two axes explained 60% of total variability (Fig  4a) . Axes 1 and 2 explained 33% and 27% of the variability, respectively. SRL, Z, D and H contributed significantly (19%, 18%, 17% and 18%, respectively) to axis 1. SLA, Bma, LARa and CW contributed significantly (25%, 22%, 12% and 28%, respectively) to axis 2. Axis 1 mainly revealed a contrast between soil-resource exploitation, ranging from species with high D, high H and high Z (on the right) to species with high SRL (on the left). Axis 2 mainly differentiated plant species according to their light exploitation traits with high SLA and LARa values at the bottom and low values at the top.    2  for the species names). The soil-resource exploitation traits are: SRL for specific root length, DI for total root-impact density, Z for median root exploration zone and D for root diameter. The symbols represent contrasted plant strategies, with a triangle for species with a high DI (total root-impact density), a square for species with a high SRL (specific root length) and a circle for species with high Z (median root exploration zone) and D (root diameter). doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0173066.g003 
 
 
 Median root exploration zone (Z)   
 The root-impact density revealed the soil occupation profile in each soil layer. The soil occupation profile of each cover plant and weed species was compared to that of the Cavendish banana cultivar (see example in Fig  5a ). In two distinct soil layers (0-20 cm and 40-80 cm), a Δ was calculated for each cover plant species as the root impact density of banana minus the root impact density of the cover plant species. In the 0-20 cm soil layer, the root-impact density of species with a positive Δ0-20 was lower than that of banana, e.g. T. patula (TP) or R. communis (RC) in Fig 5b . In the 40-80 cm soil layer, the root-impact density of species with a negative Δ40-80 was higher than that of banana, e.g. A. pintoï (AP) or B. ruziziensis (BR) in Fig 5b . In banana, the roots that contributed most to soil-resource acquisition were located in the 0-20 cm soil layer. Consequently, species with a lower root density than banana in the 0-20 soil layer (positive Δ0-20 value) and a higher root density than banana in the deeper soil layer   2  for the species names). The light exploitation traits are: Bma for aboveground dry biomass, SLA for specific leaf area, LARa for aboveground leaf area ratio, H for height and CW for plant crown width. The soil-resource exploitation traits are: SRL for specific root length, DI for total root-impact density, Z for the root exploration zone and D for root diameter. The yellow arrow represents the leaf economic spectrum gradient (according to the SLA direction) and the red arrow represents the root economic spectrum gradient (according to the SRL direction). doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0173066.g004 (negative Δ40-80) could be considered as species with a preferential root occupation zone complementary to the banana preferential zone, and therefore of potential interest for associations with banana. These species are at the bottom right in  
 Trade-offs between traits linked to spatial-niche exploration and soilresource acquisition We characterised a range of plant species according to their soil-resource exploitation strategies by assessing root traits involved in soil exploration by the root system and in the acquisition of resources within the explored soil zone. We observed trade-offs between traits. In accordance with previous studies (  2  for the species names. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0173066.g005 SRL are characterised by rapid nutrient acquisition and turn-over  Interestingly, we obtained a series of correlations showing that species exploring a large median soil zone (Z) had large diameter roots (D) but a low total root-impact density (DI). Conversely, species exploring a small soil zone had small diameter roots with a high total rootimpact density. These findings suggest a trade-off between the species abilities to develop a limited number of large diameter roots exploring a large soil zone versus many thin roots limited to a smaller soil zone. They illustrated the scale versus precision foraging theory  
 Characterising strategies of the panel of species with respect to soil resource exploitation revealed three contrasted strategies (Fig  3b ), with species located along a continuum between these three strategies. (i) We identified species, such as banana, exploring a large soil volume (Z > 1,000 cm 2 ) with large diameter roots (> 1.5 mm) able to penetrate tough soil layers (this strategy is represented by a circle in Fig  3b ). As water is generally found in deep soil layers, plant species with this strategy may have the advantage of being able to acquire water and leached mobile resources. According to the root economic spectrum  3b ). The specific root length is known to be greatest in species with high nitrogen  3b ). We hypothesised that these species favour the production of many thin roots to explore the superficial soil layers. This strategy may favour the acquisition of immobile nutrients, such as phosphorus, in the uppermost soil layer  
 Until now, only a few papers have analysed the links between aboveground and belowground strategies using a range of plant species  4 ): the median zone explored by roots (Z) was positively correlated with aboveground biomass (Bma), height (H) and crown width (CW). Although weak, a significant negative correlation was also found between the root diameter (a high D value is an indicator of a conservation strategy in the root economic spectrum) and the specific leaf area (a high SLA value is an indicator of an acquisition strategy in the leaf economic spectrum), in accordance with the findings of  4b ). Overall, these results did not confirm the "plant economic spectrum" hypothesis put forward by Reich (2014), which presumes a similar strategy for aboveground and belowground compartments. Accordingly, some species displayed a similar ecological strategy aboveground and belowground-this was the case for banana cultivars with a conservative strategy for both light (low SLA) and soil resources (low SRL), and for the two weed species showing acquisitive strategies both aboveground and belowground. Moreover, some plant species (cover plant species in our study) displayed a light acquisitive strategy and a soilresource conservative strategy, while others displayed a light conservative strategy and a soilresource acquisitive strategy. Our findings thus indicated that all combinations between aboveground and belowground strategies are possible in plants. 
 We assessed the potential of cover crop species to compete with weeds and banana by growing a large panel of cover plant species in the absence of competition with banana. Our results provided insight for identifying cover plant species with a good potential for controlling weeds in banana cropping systems. The objective when choosing a cover plant species for associations with banana is to simultaneously minimize competition with banana while maximising competition with weeds. Cover plant species are thus required to preferentially explore different soil layers from those explored by banana and, within these layers, to maximise soil exploration and resource acquisition. We compared the root-impact densities of different cover plant species in shallow and deep soil layers relative to that of banana (cv. Cavendish). We identified six cover plant species that preferentially explored deep soil layers, while banana explored shallow soil layers (Fig  5b ). These species were therefore be assumed to minimize soil resource competition with banana. We also characterized each species by four traits related to spatial exploration of soil niches and acquisition of resources within the explored soil zone. A cover plant species with a good weed control potential could be expected to combine high values for these four traits. However, due to trade-offs between traits, none of the strategies identified and none of the studied species displayed this characteristic (Fig  3b ). Therefore, we could not determine which of the six species, identified as minimizing competition with banana, had the best potential for maximising competition with weeds. Further studies should be focused on determining whether it is better to choose a species with intermediary values for each root trait (Gliricidia sepium in Fig 6c ), or a species with high values for some traits and low values for others (five other species in Fig 6a  , 6b , 6e, 6f and 6g). Indeed, at the current state of knowledge, it remains unclear which traits, among the four studied root traits, have the greatest impact for maximising competition with weeds. Moreover, in line with our previous study  
 With increasing interest in trait-based approaches to help in identifying potential cover plant species  PLOS ONE | DOI:10.1371/journal.pone.0173066March 3, 2017
There is currently a surge in reintroducing biodiversity in agricultural systems to reduce chemical inputs, suppress pests, and close biogeochemical cycles  Selecting a cover crop species means searching for the plant with the best trade-off between competition against weeds and competition with the cultivated crop (den  In tropical environments, weeds and cover crops interact differently than in other environments because they are not constrained by seasons; growth is constant because the climate is relatively stable. In these conditions, variation in radiation due to canopy closure is one of the major drivers of growth  Export bananas cover nearly one million ha worldwide  Here, we present a model-based method with a reduced number of parameters to help select cover crops in the context of banana cover-cropping systems. We developed the SIMBA-CC model that focuses on radiation interception. The model was calibrated for 11 cover crop species and used to predict their long-term growth under the banana crop canopy. These simulations served to assess, for these cover crop species, three criteria: (i) ability to cover soil and compete with weeds, (ii) ability to grow in biomass and compete with banana crops, and (iii) ability to grow continuously in the long term under the shade of the banana canopy. Finally, to maximize these criteria, we searched for the best functional traits associated with radiation interception and growth. 
 
 We studied 11 species of cover crops from three families (Fabaceae, Poaceae, Convolvulaceae) that may be of interest for banana cover cropping (Table  1 ). These species have a wide range of growth characteristics, in terms of maximal biomass, leaf area index, nitrogen content, and optimal conditions of radiation for their growth. Within these species, some are legumes and can fix atmospheric nitrogen. Each species was grown in a plot in pure stand of 20 m 2 area. The soil was a nitisol derived from volcanic (andesitic basalt) ashes. This type of soil is characteristic of the lowlands in central Martinique, with a clay portion of 74% (loam 15%, sand 11%), with 2% of organic matter. We performed five replicates per species, located randomly over the field. The soil was plowed and prepared before sowing; it had been fallow for two years. For all species of cover crops, we sowed on April 8, 2008 at optimal sowing density as recommended by the seed company (Table  1 ). These densities provided a uniform and fast growth to cover the soil. No fertilizer was added during the experiment. Irrigation was sometimes provided during the first two weeks to ensure optimal plant emergence. No irrigation was necessary after this stage because it was rainy season (827 mm during the 23 weeks of experiment). Growth conditions can be considered as optimal, without major limiting factors. For each tested species, to mimic shade increases on young banana plantations, we installed (week 17 after sowing) shading nets that provided 50% and 75% of shade on two of the five replicates. We measured dry biomass and leaf area index (LAI) 8, 13, and 22 weeks after sowing. The biomass of the entire shoot of the plant was measured using three samples of 0.625 m 2 (0.25 by 0.25 m) per plot. Aliquots of plant samples were dried in oven at 60 • C during 48 h and weighed. Another sample served to determine the LAI: we separated living leaves (green ones), scanned in black and white (two colors) all these leaves without overlapping, analyzed the proportion of black pixels corresponding to leaves, and then calculated the surface of leaves (proportion of black pixel × surface scanned). During the experiment, all climatic data (temperature, humidity, radiation, wind speed) were measured using a Campbell Scientific TM meteorological station (Shepshed, UK) beside the plot at 1 m above the ground. We measured the nitrogen content of all species using the dry combustion analyzer (Flash2000, Thermo Scientific). To validate the model, we established a dataset of cover crop biomass measured in association with banana. Banana and cover crops were planted and sown June 15, 2009 in a plot in the same soil and climatic conditions as before. Each of the five replicates included three treatments of 49 banana plants associated with Neonotonia wightii (NW), Paspalum notatum (PN), and Pueraria phaseoloides (PP), respectively. The five blocks were randomly distributed over the plot. Bananas were planted at a density of 1980 plants per ha and cover crops were sown at the seed density shown in Table  1 . Irrigation was applied to satisfy the banana demand. Nitrogen fertilizer was applied monthly on banana plants (133 kg of N per ha and per banana-cropping cycle). We measured the cover crop biomass 8, 12, 18, 26, and 34 weeks after sowing. In the case of PN, the cover crop was mowed weeks 12, 17, and 30 after sowing. 
 We used the SIMBA-CC model to simulate the growth of aerial parts of the cover crops. The SIMBA-CC model is a growth model based on radiation interception and conversion to biomass. SIMBA-CC can be used alone to simulate the growth of cover-crops or related to the comprehensive SIMBA framework  3 )). Eq. (  4 ) accounts for plants with different maximal productivities (P max ) and with different values of optimal PAR intercepted (PARopti) (Fig.  1 ). The LAI follows a logistic growth, up to LAI max (Eq. (  5 )). The growth of LAI at step t accounts for the massic surface of leaves (SLA) and the proportion of newly formed biomass allocated to shoots (Eq. (  6 )). Newly formed LAI is added to the LAI of the previous time step (Eq. (  7 )). Biomass at step t is the sum of biomass at step t -1 and newly formed biomass minus the tissue decay TS(t) (Eqs. (  8 ) and (  9 )). The nitrogen content in the newly formed biomass is the newly formed biomass at step t multiplied by the percentage of nitrogen (Eq. (  10 )).    2  and 3 .  PARi(t) = p Rg(t)(1 -exp(-K LAI(t))) (1) a = Pmax -b PARopti PARopti 2 (2) b = 2PARopti Pmax (3) Dbiom(t) = a PARi(t) 2 + b PARi(t) (4) LF(t) = LAImax -LAI(t) LAImax (5) Dlai(t) = Dbiom(t) SLA LF(t) (6) LAI(t) = LAI(t -1) + Dlai(t) (7) BIOM(t) = BIOM(t -1) + Dbiom(t) -TS(t) (8) TS(t) = Dbiom(t -LTL) (9) DN(t) = Dbiom(t) PN ( 
 Table 2 presents the calibrated value of parameters. This calibration was performed with literature values for RSR and K; these parameters are related to plant architecture. We considered the value of similar plants in the plant database of the STICS model  2 ) were measured directly. PARopti, P max , and LTL (Table  2 ) calibration was performed by fitting the model to field measurements. The fitting procedure consisted in searching, with an iterative procedure, for the values of the three fitted parameters in order to minimize the root mean square error (RMSE) between measured and simulated data. 
 We performed calibration simulations with the radiation corresponding to the experiment, including the different levels of shading. For exploration simulations, we used the radiation profile corresponding to the radiations below the canopy of a banana field, in an area representative of the banana production area in Martinique. This radiation profile follows the development of the banana population, with the progressive un-synchronization of the banana plant stages  
 Finally, we exhaustively explored combinations of PARopti and Prod max parameters. In these simulations, we fixed all other parameters to mean values corresponding to a mean crop; mean values of K, LAI max , LTL, PN, RSR, and SLA are presented in Table  2 . We used the same radiation profile as before to be representative of under-banana-canopy conditions. 
 We defined three criteria of evaluation issued from the longterm simulations. They can be considered as effect traits that represent the functions assessed. These criteria are based on the mean value of state variables in order to assess plants during critical periods. We defined: -BIOM0-15, the mean biomass between 0 and 15 weeks after sowing. We considered this value as an indicator of the capacity of the cover crop to compete with weeds because biomass is an integrated variable that encompasses the competition for space in different strata of the canopy, for radiation, and for mineral resources. -BIOM50-150, the mean biomass between 50 and 150 weeks after sowing. We considered this value as an indicator of the capacity of the cover crop to persist over time; -N50-150, the sum of nitrogen necessary for newly formed biomass DN(t) between 50 and 150 weeks after sowing. We considered this value as an indicator of the demand in nitrogen of the cover crop close to steady state. We defined thresholds for these indicators, above which their values are considered acceptable. We selected: -0.25 kg m -2 for BIOM0-15, which according to our observations is the minimal biomass to ensure fair control of weeds; in other conditions, similar biomasses necessary for weed control were observed, e.g. 0.5 to 0.7 kg m -2 for cover crops associated with tomato  
 
 We calibrated the parameters of the 11 tested species of cover crop (Table  5 ). The RMSE varied between 0.05 and 0.82 kg m -2 . Fig.  2  presents examples of simulations performed for calibration for Brachiaria decumbens (BD), Cynodon dactylon (CD), Neonotonia wightii cv. Cooper (NW), and Dichondra repens (DR, Table  1 ), representative of the variability of the cover crops studied in terms of functional groups: gramineous with high biomass, gramineous with low biomass, legume, and low biomass, respectively. Shading in week 17 after sowing had a strong depressive effect on BD biomass: more than 50% of the biomass with full sunlight. This effect was lower for CD and NW. There was a confusing effect of shading for DR; indeed, there was less growth for 50% shade than for 75%. CD and NW had relatively low values of PARopti (44 and 50 J m -2 w -1 , respectively), showing this plant has optimal growth under shade. 
 Fig.  3  presents the comparison of cover crop biomass measured in cover-cropping conditions and simulated with SIMBA-CC using parameters determined above with a pure stand dataset. The model was initialized with the measured data at week 8 after sowing; the RMSE was calculated using data corresponding to 12, 18, 26, and 34 weeks after sowing. For NW, the model reproduced very well the observed pattern of biomass (RMSE = 0.022). For PP, the model overestimated the biomass, although the pattern seems to be reproduced; the RMSE is 0.145, which is sufficient precision for early screening. For PN, the model also reproduced the biomass pattern (RMSE = 0.039); it particularly took into account the relatively slow growth between week 20 and 30 after sowing. We conclude that the model is able to reproduce the pattern observed in real covercropping systems for three species of cover crops (one gramineous and two legume species). 
 Fig.  4  presents the growth, contextualized under a banana canopy, for the 11 species of cover crops tested. The species varied widely in speed of growth and in maximal biomass reached after many months. The maximal biomass varied between 0.2 and 3.0 kg m -2 . Simulations showed that species with higher biomass and faster growth were more sensitive to the variation of radiation over the cropping cycle; radiation under the banana canopy decreases after harvest and then increases until the next harvest. Fig.  5  shows the assessment of the cover crop species on the basis of competitiveness against weeds (BIOM0-15), competition with the cultivated plant (N50-150), and capacity to persist in the   simulated conditions (BIOM50-150). Fig.  5a  shows that BIOM0-15 and BIOM50-150 were correlated (r 2 = 0.66, p-value = 0.0023). This correlation shows that these two indicators are not independent. Inversely, there was no relation between BIOM0-15 and N50-150 for the 11 species (Fig.  5b ). Gray areas in Fig.  5a    more informative for selecting the most suitable species of cover crops. AO, CD, CR, and PN fit the three criteria and are thus the most promising species as cover crop in banana fields in the conditions of Martinique. DR did not produce enough biomass to compete with weeds, while BD produced too much biomass, which could compete with banana crops. MA had a high N50-150, showing MA competes with banana crops. NW, PP, and SG were not very far from the thresholds we defined for the three criteria; in other radiation profiles, they could fit the criteria. Then, we searched for correlations between intrinsic traits of the cover crops (model parameters) and effect traits in the conditions of association with banana (Table  6 ). Intrinsic traits are traits related to the characteristics of the crops. Effect traits are state variables of the crops, resulting from the interaction between the crop and its environment. We observed a positive correlation between LAI max and both BIOM0-15 and BIOM50-150, showing that LAI max plays a major role in the growth of the crop and thus its capacity to compete with weeds. Unsurprisingly, LTL (Table  2 ) was significantly correlated to BIOM50-150, showing that the persistence of the tissues allows better maintenance of the crop in the long term, and PN (Table  2 ) was strongly correlated to N50-150. More interestingly, we found no significant relation between biomass formation parameters (P max and PARopti, Table  2 ) and evaluation traits. We did not observe any significant correlation between intrinsic traits, showing that there was no trade-off between intrinsic traits. 
 We explored all the virtual cover crops with PARopti and P max (Table  2 ) values ranging from 0 to 150 J m -2 w -1 and 0 to 0.6 kg m -2 w -1 , respectively. A virtual crop can be defined as a set of parameters that represents the functioning of a crop; it can correspond to existing or hypothetical species. Fig.  6  shows the number of criteria satisfied for all the combinations of PARopti and P max ; the dark gray area satisfies the three criteria. This gray area covers a wide range of PARopti values (from 20 to 150 J m -2 w -2 ) while the P max parameter is in a relatively narrow range of values (from 0.10 to 0.20 for PARopti of 20 and from 0.30 to 0.45 for PARopti of 150). This trend shows that, to satisfy the three criteria, cover crops with low PARopti values should have a moderate maximal productivity, while crops with higher values should have a higher maximal productivity. 
 
 Despite its reduced number of parameters, the SIMBA-CC model was able to simulate realistic values of biomass for a wide range of cover-crop species under very changing radiation conditions. Based on the three criteria we fixed to reduce competition with the banana crop and to maximize competition with weeds, AO, CD, CR, and PN are the most suitable species. Nevertheless, NW, SG, and PP might be suitable in other growing conditions if they achieved symbiotic fixation of nitrogen, thus reducing their N50-150 criterion; this would be possible for NW and SG, which are legumes  Although the SIMBA-CC model requires a very limited number of measurements to be calibrated and provides a long-term prospective evaluation, the quality of the evaluation relies on the quality of data used for calibration. For example, we observed two very distinct growths for SG and SH, which are both from the genus Stylosanthes. SG had a PARopti of 30 J m -2 w -1 and SH of 125 J m -2 w -1 , meaning SH grows better under high levels of radiations; this parameterization is consistent with the field observations (SH grew better under the 50% shade). Such different characteristics for two crops from the same genus are possible, but additional measurements should be carried out to verify these findings. Furthermore, in future studies some parameters such LTL could be directly measured, reducing the number of parameters to fit and thus increasing the accuracy of the model. The validation of the model (for three species) shows that although it is a simple model, it is able to reproduce the observed patterns of biomass. A more complex model would increase the demand for parameters, which would introduce model errors and might not improve the model. The output of the evaluation performed with SIMBA-CC should be completed by other criteria of evaluation. Here we focused on aerial growth, radiation interception, and competition for nitrogen, but other important criteria should be determined. For example, the allelopathic effect of the cover crop should not depress the cultivated crop. After the model-based selection, additional measurements should be carried out in real intercropping systems to verify these aspects. 
 Here, we developed and used a simple model that requires only few parameters. This is consistent with our approach of early evaluation of cover crops on the basis of few field measurements. Here, we illustrated the functional trait approach, which may be extended to many other criteria of evaluation and other key processes. Future development of the model could integrate other relevant mechanisms such as phenology processes, which will require additional measurements. This is the case for the AlomySys model  
 The functional trait approach allows searching for an ideal combination of parameters that satisfy a set of criteria. A plant can be described with a reduced number of traits mostly linked to their dispersal, establishment, and persistence  The relation between SLA (intrinsic trait) and N50-150 (effect trait in the conditions of association with banana) (p-value = 0.056; slope = -0.104) could be linked to the amount of light absorbed by a leaf and the diffusion pathways of CO 2 through its tissues, which is generally negatively correlated to leaf thickness  Our approach highlights the importance of choosing cover crop species to intercept radiation and to photosynthesize new biomass. From a modeling point of view, it would be of interest to account for the architecture of the cover crop more precisely. Actually, it underlies the 'K' parameter. In the future, mixing simulation outputs and indicators based on measurement of the architecture might improve the evaluation. The first prospect will be to extend the validation of our method to other soil and climate areas. Prospects also include generalizing the distinction between 'response' and 'effect' traits as defined by
Cover crops are defined as plant covers in agrosystems whose ecosystem services reduce negative environmental impacts of agriculture, e.g. avoid groundwater nitrate pollution, protects soils against erosion or improve their fertility. Currently, cover crops are sown to i) reduce nitrate leaching by maximising nitrogen (N) acquisition before the drainage period (i.e. the "nitrate catch crop effect")  Ecological theories  The aim of our study was to assess whether conceptual and methodological developments of the trait-based approach to plant functioning initially developed for wild species in natural ecosystems, could be used to characterise and classify the resource-use and ecological strategies of domesticated species such as cover crops. Species from various botanical families were analysed all together as recommend by Diaz et al.  To test these hypotheses, we performed a functional characterisation of a range of cover crop using i) leaf functional traits and ii) agronomical indicators to evaluate growth and N acquisition of species such as the crop growth rate (CGR) and the crop N acquisition rate (CNR). The quantity of biomass produced during the growing period strongly depends on the CGR and on the amount of N acquired by the plants depends on the CNR  
 
 Two field experiments were conducted from August to October 2012 on research public areas at the INRA site in Auzeville-Tolosane (43°31' N, 1°30' E), southwest France and the Agroscope site in Nyon (46°22' N, 6°14' E), Switzerland. This study was permitted by the both institutions of INRA and Agroscope and field studies did not involve endangered or protected species. The French and Swiss sites had significant different mean temperatures of 18.4°C and 16.7°C during this period, respectively, and both have deep clay loam soils. Species were sown in monocrops at their recommended plant density and to constitute homogeneous dense plant covers, in plots of 10 m 2 on 3 rd August 2012 in Switzerland and on 16 th August 2012 in France. We assumed that the two experiments conducted in non-limiting water and N availability in France and Switzerland constitute a true complete fully randomized design with two replicates corresponding to the two environmental conditions. Nonetheless, we took care to obtain very homogeneous plant covers in order to have the same range of plant intraspecific competitions for each species. Moreover, because species were grown in non-water-and non-N-limiting conditions, as proposed by  
 Thirty-six taxa (34 species and two varieties of Vicia faba and Pisum sativum) were selected as cover crop species based on their supposed ability to provide ecosystem services during fallow period  We measured CGR and CNR as two complementary simple indicators-conversely to relative growth rate or RGR which is more complex to measure-to estimate plant abilities to growth and acquire N rapidly of a wide range of different species and at a single sampling date (corresponding to approximately the middle of the vegetative phase of all cover crop species). Furthermore, we measured these two indicators at the cover level, and not at the plant level, in order to take into account, in actual agronomical conditions, intraspecific competitions between plants for abiotic resources acquisition. The calculation of CGR makes it possible to compare homogeneous covers all species over a given interval of thermal time, as used in some agronomic studies  Finally, CGR (in kg DM ha -1 DD -1 ) and CNR (in g N ha -1 DD -1 ) were calculated for each species at both sites using the following equations: CGR ¼ DM1 À DM0 T1 À T0 and CNR ¼ Nacq1 À Nacq0 T1 À T0 where DM1 and DM0 are shoot dry matters (DM) (kg ha -1 ) and Nacq1 and Nacq0 are the amounts of N acquired by plants in shoots (g ha -1 ) at T1 and T0, respectively. DM0 and Nacq0 are equal to 0 because they correspond to DM and Nacq at the sowing date. For each site and species, DM was harvested on one square meter and measured on two independent samples. N acquired was estimated by calculating total shoot N content as shoot biomass (DM) x totalshoot N concentration measured at T1 by elemental analyses based on the Dumas method (Elementar MicroVario Cube, Germany). 
 At each experimental site, leaf traits were measured at the vegetative stage  
 Co-variations among traits were evaluated using principal component analysis (PCA). We assessed the position of cover crop species along the LES axis of variation using the relationship between SLA and LNC established by Wright et al.  As a first analysis of the possible effect of domestication and breeding on species traits, we compared the trait values measured on cover crops at the experimental sites to those for annual wild species of the same genus available in the TRY database  Statistical analyses, correlations and generalized linear modelling (GLM) with stepwise regression procedure (stepAIC, P<0.05) were performed using the statistical software package R (version 2.14.0). 
 
 There were no significant differences between the mean values of the four leaf traits measured in France and Switzerland (Student's t-tests P-values: 0.10 for LNC, 0.42 for LDMC, 0.89 for LA and 0.90 for SLA). Consequently, species ranking based on these traits did not differ between the two sites: Spearman correlation coefficients between values obtained in France and Switzerland were 0.93, 0.87, 0.77 and 0.91 (P<0.0001) for SLA, LDMC, LNC and LA, respectively. Similar results were observed for CGR and CNR: there was no significant difference either in mean values (P = 0.23 and 0.21 respectively) or in species ranking between both sites, with Spearman correlation coefficients of 0.67 (P = 0.0001) and 0.62 (P = 0.0003), respectively. 
 CGR and CNR varied respectively from 0.50 kg DM ha -1 DD -1 and 12.4 g N ha -1 DD -1 for Medicago lupulina to 5.66 kg DM ha -1 DD -1 and 155.8 g N ha -1 DD -1 for Helianthus annuus. Overall, Brassicaceae and Asteraceae had high CGR and CNR values, except Camelina sativa which had lower values (Table  1 ). CGR (in kg DM ha -1 DD -1 ) were significantly positively correlated (R 2 = 0.73 and P<0.0001) with CNR (in g N ha -1 DD -1 ) using a logarithmic regression model (data not shown). Leaf traits also spanned a wide range of values: SLA varied from 14.3 m² kg -1 for Brassica rapa to 52.2 m 2 kg -1 for Vicia villosa, with a mean of 31.9 m 2 kg -1 . LDMC varied from 78.9 mg g -1 for Brassica rapa to 209.6 mg g -1 for Sorghum bicolor var. sudanense, with a mean of 127.7 mg g -1 . Although all species were grown under non-limiting N conditions, LNC also varied over a wide range, from 25.2 mg g -1 for Trigonella foenum-graecum to 63.4 mg g -1 for Vicia villosa. Finally, LA varied from 6.1 cm 2 for Lupinus angustifolius to 222.8 cm 2 for Helianthus annuus (Table  1 ). All families with more than two species (i.e. Brassicaceae, Fabaceae and Poaceae) had large variability in traits values. 
 No significant correlation was detected between CGR and SLA, LDMC or LNC, the only significant positive relationship was found between LA and CGR, but the correlation was relatively weak (R 2 = 0.42; P<0.001) (Table  2  and Fig.  1 ). For CNR, significant positive relationships were found but also relatively weak with LA (R 2 = 0.35; P<0.001) and also with LDMC (R 2 = 0.27; P = 0.001) (Table  2  and Fig.  1 ). These significant relationships were also obtained independently for both experimental sites (Table  2 ). The generalized linear models combining several leaf traits increased significantly R 2 until 0.47 for CGR and 0.58 for CNR (Fig.  2a-b ) compared to simple correlations. The first two axes of the PCA of functional traits accounted for 80% of the variability in the data (49% and 31%, respectively). Axis 1 opposed LA to SLA and LNC (Fig.  3a ). These traits strongly correlated with Axis 1 (Loading coefficients were -0.91 for SLA, -0.75 for LNC, and 0.74 for LA; all P<0.001). As a result, species with negative coordinates on this axis, such as Vicia villosa, V. benghalensis, V. sativa, Lens nigrican, Camelina sativa, had high SLA and LNC but low LA. In contrast, species with positive coordinates, such as Brassicaceae (e.g. Brassica rapa, Raphanus sativus, B. napus) had the opposite syndrome (Fig.  3b ). Axis 2 was strongly and significantly positively correlated with LDMC (Pearson's correlation coefficient was 0.89; P<0.001). Sorghum bicolor var. sudanense, Trigonella foenum-graecum and Onobrychis viciifolia had the highest positive coordinates on this axis, and Brassica rapa, Raphanus sativus and Vicia faba cv SSNS the lowest. All C 3 Poaceae were located around the PCA centre and inside the Fabaceae ellipse, and the scatter of C 3 Poaceae species in the former group was low. Both C 4 Poaceae were located at a high positive position on Axis 2. Correlations between PCA axes and cover crops growth and N acquisition rates (CGR and CNR not active in PCA) were assessed (S1 Fig. ): Axis 1 was significantly positively correlated with CGR but not with CNR, whereas Axis 2 was weekly negatively correlated with CGR and was more strongly correlated with CNR. 
 Data from the worldwide data set used to establish general relationships involved in the leaf economics spectrum  4 ). Cover crop species spanned 34% of the log SLA range and 35% of the log LNC range, and were located in the high SLA-high LNC zone of the LES relationship (Fig.  4 ). A significant positive correlation was found for cover crops species between log SLA and log LNC (R 2 = 0.36 and P = 0.0001), and species from different cover crop families were not distinguishable from one another. Brassicaceae had the lowest SLA and the highest LNC, except for one species (Camelina sativa) (Fig.  4 ). Cover crop species were positioned on the SLA-LDMC plane based on a data set composed of wild herbaceous species (Fig.  5 ). LDMC of wild species composed of grasses and forbs varied between 42.2 and 714 mg g -1 (mean: 221 mg g -1 ), while their SLA varied from 1.7-94.4 m 2 kg -1 (mean: 23.2 m 2 kg -1 ). Cover crop species spanned 48% of this range for SLA and only 25% of the LDMC range. They were mostly located in the low LDMC zone of the plane (Fig.  5 ), and no relationship was found between SLA and LDMC in our data set (R 2 = 0.0006 and P = 0.88). Species of Fabaceae, C 3 Poaceae, Asteraceae, Polygonaceae and Hydrophyllaceae tended to be mixed in this space. In contrast, most Brassicaceae species had relatively low SLA and LDMC and were surprisingly close to succulent species. The two C 4 Poaceae species clearly had higher LDMC than the other cover crop species.  Cover crop strategies corresponded to a restricted region of the CSR triangle: 21 taxa were located in the C-R range in a gradient from C to R strategies (Fig.  6 ). All Brassicaceae were classified as competitive, with C-axis coordinates from 60-96%, except Camelina sativa (35% on this axis). Helianthus annuus (Asteraceae) was also classified as competitive, at 71% on the C-axis, as expected due to its high CGR and CNR. Species from other families were mostly positioned between competitive and ruderal (47% and 46%, on average, along the C-and R-axes, respectively). Some species were positioned as ruderal, scoring up to 65% on the R-axis (e.g. Camelina sativa, Lens nigricans and Vicia villosa). Species generally scored low on the stress tolerance axis, with the highest values reached by the two C 4 Poaceae (Sorghum bicolor var. sudanense and Setaria italica), but with a maximum value of only 22%. Correlations between Grime's triangle axes and CGR and CNR showed that these two indicators were positively and significantly related to the C axis (R 2 = 0.22; P = 0.004 for both) but negatively and significantly related to the S axis, especially for CNR (R 2 = 0.18; P = 0.050 for CGR and R 2 = 0.35; P<0.001 for CNR). Both CGR and CNR were negatively related to the R axis (R 2 = 0.11 and R 2 = 0.04 respectively), but only the relationship with CGR was weakly significant (P = 0.049 and P = 0.223 respectively).  
 The functional-trait approach is robust for cover crop species Results showed that leaf functional trait values and rankings were closely maintained among cover crop species grown under non-limiting water and N availabilities at two experimental sites with different soil and climate characteristics. These results are consistent with those of Al Haj Khaled et al.  Leaf traits related to cover crop growth and N acquisition rates Axis 1 of the PCA of leaf traits showed a gradient ranging from species with small leaves, high LNC and high SLA to those with large leaves, low LNC and low SLA. This axis was positively correlated with CGR, suggesting that species with high LA, low SLA and low LNC are actually growing more quickly than those with low LA, high SLA and high LNC. However, we demonstrated that leaf area was the only leaf functional trait significantly correlated with CGR, showing that species with large leaves are growing more quickly than those with small leaves. This is consistent with the study of Hajek et al.  Axis 2 distinguished species according to their LDMC and was negatively correlated with CGR and especially with CNR. This axis indicates a gradient of species ability to acquire N (fast N uptake or high N 2 fixation). As a result, the LDMC appeared to be the most efficient   1 ). doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0122156.g006 traits to estimate species ability to acquire N. Finally, the cover crop species positioned positively with axis 1 and negatively with axis 2 would be the species the most efficient as cover crops: they grow fast and acquire N rapidly after sowing and during crop establishment. This position corresponds to Brassicaceae and Asteraceae which is consistent with their highest CGR and CNR. Finally, approximately half of the variance of CGR and CNR could be explained by a combination of several leaf functional traits. This value is relatively low and might be considered too coarse to characterize the properties of cover crop species for agronomic purposes. 
 With their high SLA and LNC, cover crop species are located in the "acquisitive" part of the LES, which is generally associated with a high photosynthetic rate, high respiration rate and rapid leaf turnover  We showed that positioning species on the Grime's triangle  
 The hypothesis tested here is that domestication or breeding modified the values of leaf functional traits of cover crops and thus their leaf traits syndrome, i.e. the combination of leaf traits values for a given species. Examination of Fig.  5  suggests that constraints exerted by domestication have been stronger on LDMC than on SLA, as shown by the narrowest range of variation of the former trait in cover crops. We tested this hypothesis further by comparing leaf traits values of cover crops with those of their homologous wild annual species from the same genus taken from the TRY database. The analysis was done at the genus level because no data was available to confidently identify the wild ancestor of each cover crop species (Table  3 ). The comparison indicated that cover crop species presented systematically and significantly higher SLA and LNC but lower LDMC than wild species. Moreover, Fabaceae which did not receive any fertilizer in our experiment also presented a significant higher LNC than wild species (Table  3 ), suggesting that the comparison of leaf trait values between the TRY database and our experimental data is valid. This is also consistent with results found by Kazakou et al  5 ). This could be related to cover crop species adaptation to different environments and reflect fundamental differences in the strategies they use to acquire, invest and use resources  
 Overall, the fact that LDMC of cover crops was reduced while at the same time LNC was increased in comparison to wild species indicates that cover crops are effective acquisitive species inducing rapid biomass production, ability for photosynthesis and N accumulation in their tissue. This leaf trait syndrome of cover crops illustrates their ability to provide both i) an efficient "nitrate catch crop" function by trapping rapidly most of the nitrate available in the soil (high CGR and CNR), and ii) a green manure function by increasing the amount of N acquired and accumulated in the tissues of the cover crop (high CNR). Moreover, the relatively low LDMC values of cover crops indicate that the N release for the subsequent cash crop will be favoured, since litters coming from leaves with low LDMC tend to decompose rapidly  
 Leaf functional traits allowed us to explore differences in the ability of cover crop species to grow fast and rapidly acquire N after sowing and during the cover establishment. Despite the wide range of CGR and CNR spanned by the studied species, they can be considered as belonging to the acquisition-use strategy as indicated by converging results from the three ecological methods tested. We demonstrated that LA and LMDC were correlated to crop growth and N acquisition rates and that combining several leaf traits allowed us to explain approximately half of the CGR and CNR variances. This might be considered insufficient to precisely characterise and rank the cover crop species for agronomic purposes. Furthermore, this study pointed out that LDMC values of cover crops was substantially lower than those of wild species. We hypothesised that domestication and breeding would have modified the leaf trait values of cultivated species as cover crops. Further studies are necessary to better understand the links between functional traits and the functions of cover crops, so as to improve the use of trait based approach in the perspective of choosing species in relation to targeted ecosystem functions.  
 PLOS ONE | DOI:10.1371/journal.pone.0122156March 19, 2015
Plant traits -morphological, anatomical, biochemical, physiological or phenological features measurable at the individual level  Plant trait data have been used in studies ranging from comparative plant ecology  While there have been initiatives to compile datasets at regional scale for a range of traits [e.g. LEDA (Life History Traits of the Northwest European Flora:  
 initiative to compile data for a large set of relevant plant traits at the global scale was lacking. As a consequence studies on trait variation so far have either been focussed on the local to regional scale including a range of different traits (e.g.  In 2007, the TRY initiative (TRY -not an acronym, rather an expression of sentiment:  1 ), TRY has accomplished an unprecedented coverage of trait data and is now working towards a communal global repository for plant trait data. The new database initiative is expected to contribute to a more realistic and empirically based representation of plant functional diversity on global scale supporting the assessment and modelling of climate change impacts on biogeochemical fluxes and terrestrial biodiversity  For several traits the data coverage in the TRY database is sufficient to quantify the relative amount of intra-and interspecific variation, as well as variation within and between different functional groups. Thus, the dataset allows to examine two basic tenets of comparative ecology and vegetation modelling, which, due to lack of data, had not been quantified so far: (1) On the global scale, the aggregation of plant trait data at the species level captures the majority of trait variation. This central assumption of plant comparative ecology implies that, while there is variation within species, this variation is smaller than the differences between species  (2) On the global scale, basic plant functional classifications capture a sufficiently important fraction of trait variation to represent functional diversity. This assumption is implicit in today's dynamic global vegetation models (DGVMs), used to assess the response of ecosystem processes and composition to CO 2 and climate changes. Owing to computational constraints and lack of detailed information these models have been developed to represent the functional diversity of 4300 000 documented plant species on Earth with a small number (5-20) of basic plant functional types (PFTs, e.g.  This article first introduces the TRY initiative and presents a summary of data coverage with respect to different traits and regions. For a range of traits, we characterize general statistical properties of the trait density distributions, a prerequisite for statistical analyses, and provide mean values and ranges of variation. For 10 traits that are central to leading dimensions of plant strategy, we then quantify trait variation with respect to species and PFT and thus examine the two tenets mentioned above. Finally, we demonstrate how trait variation within PFT is currently represented in the context of global vegetation models. 
 
 The TRY data compilation focuses on 52 groups of traits characterizing the vegetative and regeneration stages of plant life cycle, including growth, reproduction, dispersal, establishment and persistence (Table  2 ). These groups of traits were collectively agreed to be the most relevant for plant life-history strategies, vegetation modelling and global change responses on the basis of existing shortlists  Quantitative traits vary within species as a consequence of genetic variation (among genotypes within a population/ species) and phenotypic plasticity. Ancillary information is necessary to understand and quantify this variation. The TRY dataset contains information about the location (e.g. geographical coordinates, soil characteristics), environmental conditions during plant growth (e.g. climate of natural environment or experimental treatment), and information about measurement methods and conditions (e.g. temperature during respiration or photosynthesis measurements). Ancillary data also include primary references. By preference individual measurements are compiled in the database, like single respiration measurements or the wood density of a specific individual tree. The dataset therefore includes multiple measurements for the same trait, species and site. For some traits, e.g. leaf longevity, such data are only rarely available on single individuals (e.g.  The TRY dataset combines several preexisting databases based on a wide range of primary data sources, which include trait data from plants grown in natural environments and under experimental conditions, obtained by a range of scientists with different methods. Trait variation in the TRY dataset therefore reflects natural and potential variation on the basis of individual measurements at the level of single organs, and variation due to different measurement methods and measurement error (random and bias). 
 The TRY database has been developed as a Data Warehouse (Fig.  1 ) to combine data from different sources and make them available for analyses in a consistent format  
 For the analyses in the context of this manuscript, we have chosen traits with sufficient coverage from different aspects of plant functioning. The data were standardized, checked for errors and duplicates excluded. Maximum photosynthetic rates and stomatal conductance were filtered for temperature (15-30 1C), light (PAR 4500 mmol m 2 s À1 ) and atmospheric CO 2 concentration during measurements (300-400 ppm); data for respiration were filtered for temperature (15-30 1C). A temperature range for respiration from 15-30 1C will add variability to trait values. Nevertheless, an immediate response of respiration to temperature is balanced by an opposite adaptation of basal respiration rates to long-term temperature changes. More detailed analyses will have to take short-and long-term impact of temperature on both scales into account. With respect to photosynthetic rates the problem is similar, but less severe. Statistical properties of density distributions of trait data were characterized by skewness and kurtosis on the original scale and after log-transformation. The Jarque-Bera test was applied to assess departure from normality  PFTs were defined similar to those used in global vegetation models (e.g.  5 ), based on standardized tables for the qualitative traits 'plant growth form' (grass, herb, climber, shrub, tree), 'leaf type' (needle-leaved, broad-leaved), 'leaf phenology type' (deciduous, evergreen), 'photosynthetic pathway' (C3, C4, CAM) and 'woodiness' (woody, nonwoody). The evaluation of the two tenets of comparative ecology and vegetation modelling focuses on 10 traits that are central to leading dimensions of trait variation or that are physiologically relevant and closely related to parameters used in vegetation modelling  We observed large variation in SD within species if the number of observations per species was small (see funnel plot in Appendix S1). With an increasing number of observations, SD within species approached an average, trait specific level. To avoid confounding effects due to cases with very few observations per species, only species with at least five trait entries were used in statistical analyses (with exception of leaf longevity, where two entries per species were taken as the minimum number because species with multiple entries were very rare). The number of measurements per PFT was sufficient in all cases. Statistical analyses were performed in R (R Development Core Team, 2009). 
 
 As of March 31, 2011 the TRY data repository contains 2.88 million trait entries for 69 000 plant species, accompanied by 3.0 million ancillary data entries [not all data from the databases listed in Table  1  and summarized in Table  2  could be used in the subsequent analyses, Fig.  1  The TRY process of data sharing. Researcher C contributes plant trait data to TRY (1) and becomes a member of the TRY consortium (2). The data are transferred to the Staging Area, where they are extracted and imported, dimensionally and taxonomically cleaned, checked for consistency against all other similar trait entries and complemented with covariates from external databases [3; Tax, taxonomic databases, IPNI/TROPI-COS accessed via TaxonScrubber  2 ) have been published on the website of the TRY initiative ( because some recently contributed datasets were still being checked and cleaned in the data staging area (see Fig.  1 )]. About 2.8 million of the trait entries have been measured in natural environment, o100 000 in experimental conditions (e.g. glasshouse, climate or open-top chambers). About 2.3 million trait entries are for quantitative traits, while 0.6 million entries are for qualitative traits (Table  2 ). Qualitative traits, like plant growth form, are often treated as distinct and invariant within species (even though in some cases they are more variable than studies suggest, e.g. flower colour or dispersal mode), and they are often used as covariates in analyses, as when comparing evergreen vs. deciduous  The quantitative traits with the highest species coverage are seed size (27 000 species), plant height (18 000), leaf size (17 000), wood density (12 000), SLA (9000), plant longevity (8000), leaf nitrogen content (7000) and leaf phosphorus content (5000). Leaf photosynthetic capacity is characterized for more than 2000 species. Some of these traits are represented by a substantial number of entries per species, e.g. SLA has on average 10 entries per species, leaf N, P and photosynthetic capacity have about eight resp. five entries per species, with a maximum of 1470 entries for leaf nitrogen per dry mass (N m ) for Pinus sylvestris. About 40% of the trait entries (1.3 million) are georeferenced, allowing trait entries to be related to ancillary information from external databases such as climate, soil, or biome type. Although latitude and longitude are often recorded with high precision, the accuracy is unknown. The georeferenced entries are associated with 8502 individual measurement sites, with sites in 746 of the 4200 2 Â 21 land grid cells of e.g. a typical climate model (Fig.  2 ). Europe has the highest density of measurements, and there is good coverage of some other regions, but there are obvious gaps in boreal regions, the tropics, northern and central Africa, parts of South America, southern and western Asia. In tropical South America, the sites fall in relatively few grid cells, but there are high numbers of entries per cell. This is an effect of systematic sampling efforts by long-term projects such as LBA (The Large Scale Biosphere-Atmosphere Experiment in Amazonia:  3 . Here we additionally provide coverage in climate space, identifying biomes for which we lack data (e.g. temperate rainforests). More information about data coverage of individual traits is available on the website of the TRY initiative ( 
 For 52 traits, the coverage of database entries was sufficient to quantify general pattern of density distributions in terms of skewness and kurtosis, and to apply the Jarque-Bera test for normality (Table  3 ). On the original scale all traits but one are positively skewed, indicating distributions tailed to high values. After logtransformation, the distributions of 20 traits are still positively skewed, while 32 traits show slightly nega- tive skewness. For 49 of the 52 traits, the Jarque-Bera test indicates an improvement of normality by logtransformation of trait values -only for three traits normality was deteriorated (leaf phenolics, tannins and carbon content per dry mass; Table  3 ). The distribution of leaf phenolics and tannins content per dry mass is in between normal and log-normal: positively skewed on the original scale, negatively skewed on log-scale. Leaf carbon content per dry mass has a theoretical range from 0 to 1000 mg g À1 . The mean value, about 476 mg g À1 , is in the centre of the theoretical range, and the variation of trait values is small (Table  4 ).    Nevertheless, according to the Jarque-Bera test, also on a logarithmic scale all traits show some degree of deviation from normal distributions (indicated by small P-values, Table  3 ). Seed mass, for example, is still positively skewed after log-transformation (Table  3 ). This is due to substantial differences in the number of database entries and seed masses between grasses/ herbs, shrubs and trees (Fig.  4a ). Maximum plant height in the TRY database has a strong negative kurtosis after log-transformation (Table  3 ). This is due to a bimodal distribution: one peak for herbs/ grass and one for trees (Fig.  4b ). The number of height entries for shrubs is comparatively small -which may be due to a small number or abundance of shrub species in situ (i.e. a real pattern) but is more likely due to a relative 'undersampling' of shrubs (i.e. an artefact of data collection). Within the growth forms herbs/grass and shrubs, height distribution is approximately log-normal. For trees the distribution is skewed to low values, because there are mechanical constrictions to grow taller than 100 m. The distribution of SLA after log-transformation is negatively skewed with positive kurtosis (Table  3 ) -an imprint of needle-leaved trees and shrubs besides the majority of broadleaved plants (Fig.  4c ). The distribution of leaf nitrogen content per dry mass after log-transformation has small skewness, but negative kurtosis (Table  3 ) -the data are less concentrated around the mean than normal (Fig.  4d ). In several cases, sample size is sufficient to characterize the distribution at different levels of aggregation, down to the species level. Again we find approximately log-normal distributions (e.g. SLA and N m for Pinus sylvestris; Fig.  4c  and d ). 
 There are large differences in variation across traits (Table  4 ). The standard deviation (SD) expressed on a logarithmic scale ranges from 0.03 for leaf carbon content per dry mass (resp. about 8% on the original scale) to 1.08 for seed mass (resp. À95% and 1 1100% on the original scale). Note two characteristics of SD on the logarithmic scale: (1) it corresponds to an asymmetric distribution on the original scale: small range to low values, large range to high values; (2) it can be compared directly across traits. For more information, see supporting information Appendix S2. Leaf carbon content per dry mass, stem density and leaf density show the lowest variation, followed by the concentration of macronutrients (nitrogen, phosphorus), fluxes and conductance (photosynthesis, stomatal conductance, respiration), the concentration of micronutrients (e.g. aluminium, manganese, sodium), traits related to length (plant height, plant and leaf longevity), and traits related to leaf area. Mass-related traits show the highest variation (seed mass, leaf dry mass, N and P content of the whole leaf -in contrast to concentration per leaf dry mass or per leaf area). The observations reveal a general tendency towards higher variation with increasing trait dimensionality (length oarea omass; for more information, see Appendix S3). 
 There is substantial intraspecific variation for each of the 10 selected traits (Table  5 ): for single species the standard deviation is above 0.3 on logarithmic scale, e.g. *Mean values for leaf phenolics, tannins and carbon content were calculated on the original scale, the SD is, provided on log-scale, for comparability. Values for A maxN were calculated based on database entries for A max and leaf N content per area, resp. dry mass. Mean values have been calculated as arithmetic means on a logarithmic scale and retransformed to original scale. SD, standard deviation on log 10scale. Traits are sorted by decreasing SD. Bold: traits for which we quantified the fraction of variance explained by species and PFT (cf. Table  5 , Fig.  5 ). SD 5 0.34 for maximum plant height of Phyllota phyllicoides (À55% and 1 121% on the original scale), but based on only six observations and SD 5 0.32 in case of Dodonaea viscosa (n 5 26). The SD of N m for Poa pratensis is 0.17 (n 5 63), which is almost equal to the range of all data reported for this trait, but this is an exceptional case. The trait and species with the most observations is nitrogen content per dry mass for Pinus sylvestris with 1470 entries (SD 5 0.088, À18% and 1 22%). The variation in this species spans almost half the overall variation observed for this trait (SD 5 0.18), covering the overall mean (Fig.  4d ). For several trait-species combinations, the number of measurements is high enough for detailed analyses of the variation within species (e.g. on an environmental gradient). The mean SD at the species-level is highest for plant height (0.18) and lowest for leaf longevity (0.03, but few observations per species, Table  5 ). For all ten traits the mean SD within species is smaller than the SD between species mean values (Table  5 ). Based on ANOVA, mean trait values are significantly different between species: at the global scale 60-98% of trait variance occurs interspecific (between species, Fig.  5 ). Nevertheless, for three traits (P m , N a , A maxa ) almost 40% Fig.  4  Examples of trait frequency distributions for four ecologically relevant traits  
 Variation within and between species and within and between plant functional types (PFT) ). of the variance occurs intraspecific (within species, Fig.  5 ). 
 Tenet 2: Basic PFTs capture a sufficiently important fraction of trait variation to represent functional diversity For all 10 traits, the PFT mean values are significantly different between PFTs (Table  5 ). Four traits show larger variation between PFT mean values than within PFTs (plant height, seed mass, leaf longevity, A maxN ), two traits show similar variation between PFT means and within PFTs (SLA, A maxm ). As a consequence, more than 60% of the observed variance occurs between PFTs for plant height and leaf longevity, and about 40% of the variation occurs between PFTs for seed mass, SLA, A maxm and A maxN (Fig.  5 ). The high fraction of explained variance for these six traits reflects the definition of PFTs based on the closely related qualitative traits: plant growth form, leaf phenology (evergreen/deciduous), leaf type (needle-leaved/broadleaved) and photosynthetic pathway (C3/C4). For theses traits, PFTs such as those commonly used in vegetation models, capture a considerable fraction of observed variation with relevant internal consistency. However, for certain traits the majority of variation occurs within PFTs: four traits show smaller variation between than within PFTs, causing substantial overlap across PFTs (N m , N a , P m , A maxa ). In these cases only about 20-30% of the variance is explained by PFT, and about 70-80% of variation occurs within PFTs. 
 To demonstrate how the observed trait variation is represented in global vegetation models, we first compare observed trait ranges of SLA to parameter values for SLA used in 12 global vegetation models; then we compare observed trait ranges of N m with state variables of nitrogen concentration calculated within the dynamic global vegetation model O-CN  6 ), and we further jointly analyse SLA data by PFT. However, the range of observed trait values for SLA per PFT is remarkably large, except for the PFT 'needle-leaved deciduous trees' (Figs  6  and 7 ). The parameter values from most of the 12 models match moderately high density of SLA observations, but most are clearly different from the mean, and some parameter values are at the low ends of probabilities, surprisingly far off the mean value of observations. The range of observed trait values for N m per PFT is also high (Fig.  8 ), except for the PFT 'needle-leaved evergreen trees'. Modelled state variables are in most cases within the range of frequently observed trait values -model values for the PFT 'needle-leaved evergreen trees' match the observed distribution almost Fraction of variance explained by plant functional type (PFT) or species for 10 relevant and well-covered traits. R 2 , fraction of explained variance; Traits: Seed mass, seed dry mass; Plant height, maximum plant height; LL, leaf longevity; SLA, specific leaf area; N m , leaf nitrogen content per dry mass; P m , leaf phosphorus content per dry mass; N a , leaf nitrogen content per area; A maxa , maximum photosynthesis rate per leaf area; A maxm , maximum photosynthesis rate per leaf dry mass; A maxN , maximum photosynthesis rate per leaf nitrogen content. perfectly. Nevertheless, there are considerable differences between modelled and observed distributions: the modelled state variables are approximately normally distributed on the original scale, while the observed trait values are log-normally distributed; the range of modelled values is substantially smaller than the range of observations; and the highest densities are shifted. Apart from possible deficiencies of the O-CN model, the deviation between observed and modelled distributions may be due to inconsistencies between compiled traits and modelled state variables: trait entries in the database are not abundance-weighted with respect to natural occurrence, and they represent the variation of single measurements, while the model produces 'community' measures. The distribution of observed data presented here is therefore likely wider than the abundance-weighted leaf nitrogen content of communities in a given model grid cell. 
 The TRY initiative and the current status of data coverage The TRY initiative has been developed as a Data Warehouse to integrate different trait databases. Nevertheless, TRY does not aim to replace existing databases, but rather provides a complementary way to access these data consistently with other trait data -it facilitates synergistic use of different trait databases. Compared with a Meta Database approach, which would link a network of separate databases, the integrated database (Data Warehouse) provides the opportunity to SLA (mm 2 mg -1 ) Latitude Latitude SLA (mm 2 mg -1 ) SLA (mm 2 mg -1 ) SLA (mm 2 mg -1 ) Fig.  6  Worldwide range in specific leaf area (SLA) along a latitudinal gradient for the main plant functional types. Grey, all data; black, data for the plant functional group (PFT) under scrutiny. standardize traits, add ancillary data, provide accepted species names and to identify outliers and duplicate entries. A disadvantage of the Data Warehouse approach is that some of the databases contributing to TRY are continuously being developed (see Table  2 ). However, these contributions to TRY are regularly updated. The list of traits in the TRY database is not fixed, and it is anticipated that additional types of data will be added to the database in the future. Examples include sap-flow measurements, which are fluxes based on which trait values can be calculated, just as photosynthesis measurements can be used to determine parameter values of the Farquhar model  The qualitative traits with greatest coverage (more than 30 000 species for woodiness, plant growth form, leaf compoundness, leaf type, photosynthetic pathway) represent about 10% of the estimated number of vascular plant species on land. The quantitative traits with most coverage (5000-20 000 species for e.g. seed mass, plant height, wood density, leaf size, leaf nitrogen content, SLA) approach 5% of named plant species.   Although they represent a limited set of species (5-10%), most probably they include the most abundant (dominant) species. The high number of characterized species opens up the possibility of identifying the evolutionary branch points at which large divergences in trait values occurred. Such analyses will improve our understanding of trait evolution at both temporal and spatial scales. They highlight the importance of includ-ing trait data for autotrophs representing very different branches of the Tree of Life  For some traits, we know that many more data exist, which could potentially be added to the database. Nevertheless, for some traits the lack of data reflects difficulties in data collection.   8  Frequency distributions of leaf nitrogen content per dry mass for major plant functional types as compiled in the TRY database compared with frequency distributions of the respective state variable calculated within the O-CN vegetation model  Many trait data compiled in the database were not necessarily collected according to similar or standard protocols. Indeed many fields of plant physiology and ecology lack consensus definitions and protocols for key measurements. However, progress is being made as well towards a posteriori data consolidation (e.g.  Information about the abiotic and biotic environment in combination with trait data is essential to allow an assessment of environmental constraints on the variation of plant traits  The number of observations or species with data for all traits declines rapidly with an increasing number of traits: fewer species have data for each trait (see Appendix  S3 ). In cases where multivariate analyses rely on completely sampled trait-species matrices, this issue poses a significant constraint on the number of traits and/or species that can be included. Gap filling techniques, e.g. hierarchical Bayesian approaches or filtering techniques  
 Based on the TRY dataset, we characterized two general patterns of trait density distributions: (1) plant traits are rather log-normal than normal distributed and (2) the range of variation tends to increase with trait-dimensionality. Here the analysis did benefit from compiling large numbers of trait entries for several traits from different aspects of plant strategy. Based on the rich sampling, we could quantify simple general rules for trait distributions and still identify deviations in the individual case. The approximately log-normal distributions confirm prior reports for individual traits (e.g.  For several traits, we quantified ranges of variation: overall variation, intra-and interspecific variation, and variation with respect to different functional groups. Most of the trait data compiled within the TRY database have been measured within natural environments and only a small fraction comes from experiments. Therefore, the impact of experimental growth conditions on observed trait variation is probably small in most cases and the observed trait variation in the TRY database comprises primarily natural variation at the level of single organs, including variation due to different measurement methods and, of course, measurement errors. However, systematic sampling of trait variation at single locations is a relatively new approach  
 The results presented here are a first step to illuminate two basic tenets of plant comparative ecology and vegetation modelling at a global scale: (1) The aggregation of trait data at the species level represents the major fraction of variation in trait values. At the same time, we have shown surprisingly high intraspecific variationfor some traits responsible for up to 40% of the overall variation (Table  5 , Figs  4  and 5 ). This variation reflects genetic variation (among genotypes within a population/species) and phenotypic plasticity. Through the TRY initiative, a relevant amount of data is available to quantify and understand trait variation beyond aggregation on species level. The analysis presented here is only a first step to disentangle within-and between-species variability. It is expected that in combination with more detailed analyses the TRY database will support a paradigm shift from species to traitbased ecology. (2) Basic PFTs, such as those commonly used in vegetation models capture a considerable fraction of observed variation with relevant internal consistency. However, for certain traits the majority of variation occurs within PFTs -responsible for up to 75% of the overall variation  There are new approaches in Earth system modelling to better account for the observed variability: suggesting more detailed PFTs, modelling variability within PFTs or replacing PFTs by continuous trait spectra. In the context of this analysis we focused on a basic set of PFTs. This schema is not immutable and there is not one given functional classification scheme. In fact, PFTs are very much chosen and defined along specific needs -and the availability of information. For example, the PFTs used in an individual based forest simulator (e.g.  The O-CN model  
 The analyses presented here are only a first step to introduce the TRY dataset. To better understand, separate, and quantify the different contributions to trait variation observed in TRY, more comprehensive analyses could be carried out, e.g. variance partitioning accounting for phylogeny and disentangling functional and regional influences or analysis of (co-)variance of plant traits along environmental gradients. An integrative exploration of ecological and biogeographical information in TRY is expected to substantially benefit from T R Y -A G L O B A L D A T A B A S E O F P L A N T T R A I T S 2929 progress in the science of machine learning and pattern recognition  The representation of trait observations in a spatial or climate context in the TRY database is limited (Figs  2  and 3 ). This situation can be overcome using complementary data streams: trait information can be spatially expanded with comprehensive compilations of species occurrence data, e.g. from GBIF or herbarium sources. For SLA and leaf nitrogen content we provide an example for combining trait information with species occurrence data from the GBIF database and with climate reconstruction data derived from the CRU database (Fig.  3 ). Given that the major fraction of variation is between species, the variation of species mean trait values may be used -but with caution -as a proxy for trait variation, as has already been performed in recent studies at regional and continental scales  The relationship between plant traits (organism-level) and ecosystem or land surface functional properties is crucial. Recent studies have built upon the eddy covariance network globally organized as FLUXNET (a network of regional networks coordinating observations from micrometeorological tower sites:  
 The TRY database provides unprecedented coverage of information on plant traits and will be a permanent communal repository of plant trait data. The first analyses presented here confirm two basic tenets of plant comparative ecology and vegetation modelling at global scale: (1) the aggregation of trait data at the species level represents the major fraction of variation and (2) PFTs cover a relevant fraction of trait variation to represent functional diversity in the context of vegetation modelling. Nevertheless, at the same time these results reveal for several traits surprisingly high variation within species, as well as within PFTs -a finding which poses a challenge to large-scale biogeography and vegetation modelling. In combination with improved (geo)-statistical methods and complementary data streams, the TRY database is expected to support a paradigm shift in ecology from being based on species to a focus on traits and trait syndromes. It also offers new opportunities for research in evolutionary biology, biogeography, and ecology. Finally, it allows the detection of the biotic imprint on global carbon and water cycles, and fosters a more realistic, empirically grounded representation of plants and ecosystems in Earth system models. French Foundation for Biodiversity Research (FRB), and GIS 'Climat, Environnement et Socie ´te ´' France. We wish to thank John Dickie and Kenwin Liu for making the data from the KEW Seed Information Database available in the context of the TRY initiative, Alastair Fitter, Henry Ford and Helen Peat for making the Ecological Flora of the British Isles available, and Andy Gillison for the VegClass database. We wish to thank Brad Boyle and the SALVIAS project for building and making available a global checklist of plant species names, and GBIF (Andrea Hahn) for making the species occurrence data available. The authors thank the NSF LTER program DEB 0620652 and the NSF LTREB program DEB 0716587 for making data on plant traits available. r 2011 Blackwell Publishing Ltd, Global Change Biology, 17, 2905-2935
The reintroduction of biodiversity in agrosystems has been encouraged for more than a decade to enhance ecological functions and reduce chemical inputs recognized for their negative impacts on the environment  Banana plantations of the French West Indies (FWI 14 • 39 48.07 N, 60 • 59 57.54 W) are characterized by a high level of weed pressure due to favorable growth conditions all year round under wet tropical climate. Weeds strongly compete with the banana for soil resources and impair banana growth and production. To maintain yields, large quantities of herbicides are used in export banana plantations (5.8 kg ha -1 year -1 of herbicide active product in  Cover species are expected to control weeds with one of three main processes: competition for resources, development of a physical barrier to germination and emergence, and allelopathy  Plant functional traits may be used to describe these strategies. Functional traits are morphological, physiological and phenological features of an individual organism that determines its effect on or response to the environment  In previous studies on cover species used in banana cropping systems of the French West Indies, we discussed how a trait-based approach can be used to assess the ecosystem services delivered  
 The 17 cover plants studied, code used throughout the text and figures, taxonomical groups and trait-based groups constructed according to the cluster analysis (see Fig.  2 ). 
 Full classification differ from a taxonomic monocot/dicot classification? To answer these questions, we observed the early growth of a range of cover species under controlled conditions. 
 
 Seventeen cover species were grown in 2 L pots in a growth chamber (Table  2 ). Species were chosen because of their potential for use in banana cropping systems in the French West Indies (seed availability, adaptation to local environmental conditions and known benefits in other systems worldwide). Ten pots were used for each species. Each pot was filled with 1250 g of a 70% peat + 30% pozzolana sterilized substrate at field capacity (65% water content). Five seeds per pot were sown. A seed heat treatment was required for Ricinus communis and Neonotonia wightii (Table  2 ). When plantlet cotyledons emerged, only one plantlet per pot was preserved. After sowing, each pot was fertilized with 5 g of CaCO 3 and 10 g of a slow-release fertilizer (11% N, 11% P 2 O 5 , 18% K 2 O, 2% MgO). The pots were weighed and watered twice weekly to maintain the soil water content at field capacity. A 100 mL iron chelate solution was added three times weekly, between two waterings, to prevent iron chlorosis. The growth chamber temperature was maintained at 24 • C during the day and 22 • C at night, with a 12/12 light/dark cycle. The light intensity was maintained at 512 mol photons m -2 s -1 of photosynthetic active radiation. Pots were randomly rearranged after each watering to avoid spatial heterogeneity in the growth conditions. 
 Growth analyses have shown that leaf area is related to a few traits widely studied in ecology. The plant leaf area at time t (LA t , in m 2 , Table  1 ) is expressed as the product of the plant aboveground biomass at time t (BM a,t , in g) and the aboveground leaf area ratio (LAR a , in m 2 g -1 ), which represent the investment of biomass in plant leaf area and is the product of the specific leaf area (SLA, in m 2 g -1 ) and the aboveground leaf mass fraction (LMF a , in g g -1 ): LA t = BM a,t × LAR a (1) LAR a = SLA × LMF a (2) BM a,t can be calculated from the plant aboveground growth rate, expressed by the aboveground relative growth rate (RGR a , in g g -1 day -1 ) between t 1 and t 2  RGR a = 1 BM a × dBM a dt (3) The aboveground biomass accumulated between emergence (BM a,0 , the plant biomass at emergence) and time t can thus be expressed as: BM a,t = BM a,0 × exp (t × RGR a) (4) BM a,0 has been shown to be a function (f) of seed mass (SM) (e.g.  BM a,0 = f (SM) (5) Combining Eqs. (  1 ), (  3 ) and (4) leads to the following expression of LA t : LA t = SLA × LMF a × f (SM) × exp(t × RGR a ) (6) According to Eq. (  6 ), SLA, LMF a , SM and RGR a were the four traits used to describe the leaf area development strategies. 
 Seed mass (SM) was determined after seed oven-drying at 70 • C until mass stabilization. For each cover species, five replicates were harvested soon after germination, when the first leaf (not cotyledon) was fully developed, and pooled. Leaves and stems were separated. For dicots, petioles were considered as leaves. For monocots, only the laminas, not the leaf sheaths, were considered as leaves  RGR a = In BM a,1 -In BM a,0 (t 1 -t 0 ) (7) 
 All analyses were performed with R software (R Core Team, 2013). SM, BM a,0 and LA 0 were not normally distributed, according to the Shapiro-Wilk test (P = 2.60 10 -5 , P = 4.05 10 -5 and P = 2.59 10 -5 for SM, BM a,0 and LA 0 , respectively), but instead were log-normally distributed. Accordingly, these two variables were log 10 -transformed before analysis. Standardized major axis (SMA) slopes with 95% confidence intervals were fitted to bivariate trait relationships. SMA was preferred over standard regressions because we did not have any reason for considering one variable as the independent and the other as the dependent  
 
 Log-transformed BM a,0 , log-transformed LA 0 and logtransformed SM were highly positively correlated (r 2 ≥ 0.76, P < 0.001 for all relationships, Table  3 ). RGR a correlated negatively with log-transformed BM a,0 , LA 0 and SM (r 2 between 0.60 and 0.86, P < 0.001 for all relationships, Table  3 ), suggesting a marked trade-off between RGR a and these three variables. LMF a was correlated positively with BM a,0 , LA 0 and SM (r 2 between 0.31 and 0.41, Table  3 ) and negatively with RGR a (r 2 = 0.64, P < 0.001, Table  3 ). Finally LAR a was correlated positively with log-transformed BM a,0 , SLA ps and LMF a (r 2 = 0.22, 0.63 and 0.60, respectively, and P = 0.056, P < 0.001, P < 0.001 respectively, Table  3 ) and negatively with RGR a (r 2 = 0.35, P = 0.012, Table  3 ). Surprisingly, SLA sp was correlated with no other variables (Table  3 ). 
 The first two principal component axes explained 87.1% of the total variance in the four traits observed (Fig.  1 ). The first axis alone explained 62.7% of this variance and was positively correlated with RGR a and negatively with LMR a and log-transformed SM (which respectively explained 35.8%, 31.6% and 30.0% of variance on this axis) (Fig.  1a ), according to the negative relationship between these two traits. The second axis explained 24.4% of the total variance in the four traits and was positively correlated with SLA sp , which explained 91.3% of variance on this axis (Fig.  1a ). The cluster analysis identified four groups of cover plants (Fig.  2 ), which did not overlap on the PCA axis 1-axis 2 representation (Fig.  1a ). Mean scores of the groups on the PCA-axes were significantly different (P < 0.001 on both axes), indicating that they were distinct groups (Fig.  3 ). Analyze of the effect of trait-based groups on PCA-axis 1 and 2 scores showed that the functional classification explained a very large part of PCA-axis 1 and 2 score variability among species (r 2 = 0.829 and 0.853 for axis 1 and 2, respectively). Group 2 (G2) had the highest score on the PCA-axis 1, while group 3 (G3) had the lowest (Fig.  3a ). Group 4 (G4) had the highest score on PCA-axis 2 while the other groups did not differ between them (Fig.  3b ). A closer analysis of trait differences between groups showed that they significantly differed for SM, SLA ps , LMF a and RGR a (Table  4 ). G1 was characterized by a high SLA sp , G2 by a high SM and a low RGR a , G3 by a high RGR a and low LMF a and LAR a , while G4 had no outstanding trait values compared to the other groups (Table  4 ). This analysis also showed that no single group had only high trait values and that no group had only low trait values, in agreement with the trait covariations identified in the bivariate analysis. 
 Comparisons between Fig.  1a  and b  showed that trait-based groups did not match the taxonomic classification (monocots belonged to G1, G2 and G4). Monocots had a significantly higher RGR a (222.3 mg g -1 d -1 ) and lower LMF a (0.52 g g -1 ) and SM (3.1 g) than dicots (139.0 mg g -1 d -1 , 0.71 g g -1 and 47.0 g, respectively). Accordingly, their representation on PCA axis 1-axis 2 representation showed that monocots significantly differed from dicots on PCA-axis 1 (P < 0.001) but not on PCA-axis 2 (P = 0.547) (Fig.  1b ). However, comparison of models of the effect of taxonomic groups and of the effect of trait-based groups on the PCA-axis 1 and 2 scores showed that the taxonomic classification explained a lower portion of the PCA-axis 1 and 2 score variability between species (r 2 = 0.602 and r 2 = 0.025 for PCA-axis 1 and 2 scores, respectively) Fig.  1 . Principal component analysis performed on the four plant traits related to the leaf area development (see Table  1  for abbreviation list) and the 17 cover plant species (see Table  2 ). Arrows represent the principal component loadings and ellipses represent (a) the trait-based groups (G1, G2, G3 and G4) identified by the cluster analysis run on the first two PCA-axes scores (see Fig.  2 ), and (b) monocot (M) and dicot (D) taxonomic groups. than the functional classification (r 2 = 0.829 and 0.853 for axis 1 and 2, respectively). 
 LA 1 did not differ significantly between trait-based groups (Fig.  4 ). However, the median LA 1 value of G1 and G2 (1293 cm 2 and 1606 cm 2 , respectively) was higher than the median LA 1 value   1 ). The upper right section of the matrix presents the slopes and associated 95% confidence intervals for a given relationship (variables in column as x-axis and variables in row as y-axis), based on a standardized major axis regression analysis (where n = 17 for all models). The lower left section of the matrix presents model r 2 and P-values for each bivariate model, with significant relationships (P ≤ 0.05) highlighted in bold. Inspired from  2  for species codes). The y-axis represents the height of the tree, in that case (ward method) the within-cluster variance, which is a measure of the closeness of individual data points. The dotted line divided the dendogram into four groups, within which variance was lower than 4. These trait-based groups were identified as G1, G2, G3 and G4.    29.9 (28.5; 30.4)  23.7 (22.7; 24.8)  18.8 (18.7; 18.9)  22.2 (21.6; 19.5a 17.7a 7.7b 16.0a  19.5 (17.0; 21.8)  17.3 (15.4; 19.6)  7.7 (7.2; 8.1)  16.4 (15.6; 17.4  of G3 and G4 (912 cm 2 and 836 cm 2 , respectively), suggesting the groups G1 and G2 had better efficiency in leaf area development. 
 
 Strong positive and negative relationships were observed between seed mass, biomass at emergence, relative growth rate, leaf area ratio and its components, revealing a syndrome of traits. Most of these relationships were extensively studied. As we observed, a strong positive correlation is frequently reported between seed mass and biomass at emergence, as a result of the large amount of nutrient reserves in seeds that enable the development of large cotyledons (e.g.  However, positive correlations between relative growth rate and leaf area ratio and its components have been extensively reported  We studied a small number of families, each represented by a very different species number. Such relationships may thus be biased by the effect of phylogeny, as traits of close related species are expected to be more similar than traits of distant species  
 Plant leaf area development strategies were defined as the ways plants developed their leaf area as described by four traits. We assumed that enhanced insight into these strategies would help understand how cover species develop their leaf area and, by extension, how they interact with weeds. According to the trait syndrome described above, four groups of cover species with different leaf area development strategies were identified in the range of species we studied. A first strategy was to develop high biomass and leaf area at emergence. Species of group G2 had this strategy. Species of this group had large seeds and, according to the trait syndrome we underlined, a low RGR a . Despite their slow growth, these species can cover a large surface of soil as soon as they emerge. Among them were shrubby species (Cajanus cajan and Ricinus communis), whose seeds are reported to be larger than those of herbaceous species  A second strategy consisted of allocating a large part of biomass to the leaf area development. Species of group G1 had this strategy. They belong to different taxonomic groups (Poaceaes, Fabaceae and Asteraceae) and have different growth forms (erected: Crotalaria zanzibarica, Crotalaria pallida and Tagetes patula; twining: Neonotonia wightii and Pueraria phaseolides; semi-erected creeping: Bracharia decumbens and Bracharia ruzziziensis). Almost all of them (except Tagetes patula) are recognized as vigorous and are frequently used under the tropics as cover crops  A third strategy consisted of rapid growth in biomass and low investment in leaf biomass. Species having this strategy belonged to group G3 and were only creeping monocots (Cynodon dactylon and Paspalum notatum). They had a very high RGR a , but small seeds, and low LMF a and LAR a . These species grew rapidly but began their growth with a very small biomass and leaf area because of their small seeds. They possibly also invested little biomass in leaf area, because of their creeping nature, which requires a strong investment in support structures to allow their horizontal spread. The last was a non-specialized strategy, compared to the three others. Species of group G4 had this strategy. They had low biomass at leaf emergence, did not allocate substantial biomass to the leaf area development and had a moderate growth rate compared to the species of other groups. We found in this group species as diverse as erected Poacae (Eleusine coracana), erected Fabaceae (Stylosanthes guyanensis and Crotalaria spectabilis) and twining Fabaceae (Centrosema pascuorum). 4.3. Performances of these strategies in terms of leaf area developed after 1 month of growth Relationships between plant leaf area development strategies and performances in terms of the leaf area developed after 1 month could facilitate the choice of the best cover species to develop a large leaf area and control weeds by light competition. No significant differences were observed between the four strategies we identified. Consequently, the four groups of cover species we identified were not functional groups, i.e. species having similar effects on the processes  Although not significant, the differences in leaf area development performance after 1 month noted between groups showed that species allocating a large part of biomass to leaf area development (G1) and species developing large biomass and leaf area at emergence (G2) have the best leaf area development after 1 month. Species under the two other strategies, rapid growth in biomass and low biomass investment in leaves (G3) and non-specialized strategy (G4) did not perform well regarding leaf area development after 1 month. This suggests: (i) that despite their rapid growth, species from G3 struggled to overcome the delay in leaf area acquired at emergence, (ii) that no specialization in any leaf area development component was not efficient in the short term. 
 The importance of considering functional diversity rather than taxonomic diversity to understand the functioning of communities, their response to the environment and impact on the ecosystem is now recognized (e.g.  
 Strong positive and negative covariations were observed between the four traits related to the development of leaf area we studied, revealing a syndrome of traits and suggested trade-offs. This syndrome of traits enabled to identify four leaf area development strategies of tropical cover species. Marked trends were observed, although no significant differences in leaf area development after 1 month were observed between these strategies. Species allocating a large part of biomass to leaf area development or species developing considerable biomass and leaf area at emergence tended to perform better regarding leaf area development after 1 month than species with rapid biomass growth but low biomass investment in leaves or species having a non-specialized strategy. Longer term studies should be conducted to confirm the observed trends. Trait values also varied between monocots and dicots. However, the functional classification better explained the variability in trait values between species than the taxonomic classification. These results encourage the use of a trait-based classification to describe plant functioning, to understand plant roles in plant-plant interactions and guide the choice of the best cover species to introduce into cropping systems. 
 Agroecosystem services expected in banana agrosystems, a choice of related plant functions, associated plant coarse characteristics, and effect traits used to assess the potential of cover crops to achieve these functions. 
 Plant the best suited cover plant species according to their role in the agrosystem. A promising method for selecting the best suited cover plants involves functional traits as simplified indicators of plant functions. Functional traits have been extensively used in comparative ecology studies to describe the relationships between plant diversity, community structure, and ecosystem properties. They are defined as the morphological, physiological, and phenological features, measurable at the plant level, that impact plant performances  In the tropical climate of the French West Indies, annual and perennial weeds grow fast all year and may strongly compete with banana plants for soil resources. In such conditions, pathogen pressure is also very high. Plant-parasitic nematodes and particularly Pratylenchidae Radopholus similis are one of the main pests of banana. They lesion the root system, impair plant nutrition, and cause toppling and uprooting of banana plants. To decrease such parasitic nematode populations and their subsequent damage, growers have to drive a one year sanitation fallow after every five or six production cycles of banana. This fallowing period is also aimed at restoring soil fertility. In recent years, cover plants have consistently been used during the fallowing period (as sequential cropping) or in association with banana (as intercropping). Considering the constraints of banana agrosystems, suited cover plants are expected to control weeds and plant-parasitic nematodes (regulation service, senso  
 
 In the banana agrosystems of the French West Indies, cover plants are generally grown to control plant-parasitic nematodes (particularly R. similis), to decrease or suppress weed pressure, to improve soil fertility (particularly N), and to avoid competition with banana for resources. These ecological services were analyzed in terms of related plant functions and plant effect traits (Table  1 ). The ability of cover plants to control R. similis was assessed through their host status toward that nematode species, i.e. their ability to increase R. similis populations in their roots. Host status Table  3  Plant functional types of cover plants. Each functional type is defined by a function code and an index that represents the plant potential to achieve the function: 1 means that the function is fully achieved, 0.5 means that the function is moderately achieved, and 0 means that the function is not achieved. Functional types resulted from a combination of plant trait values. 
 Function The duration of the plant life cycle was scored according to four classes: short annual (<3 months), annual, pluri-annual, and perennial. The growth habit was qualified as twining, creeping, semi-erected, or erected. Vegetative multiplying organs (rhizome or stolons) and the ability of plants to grow from cuttings were determined from field observations. Plant height was evaluated from measurements of 10 individuals within a population. Three height classes were determined: 0-0.5 m, 0.5-1.0 m, and higher than 1 m (see Section 2.3). On each plot, three 1 m-deep and 1 m-wide trenches were dug perpendicularly to the plantation rows. Root impacts on the vertical soil profile were counted on a 10 cm × 10 cm mesh grid. The mean root impact density in the 0-30 cm soil layer (RID) was calculated as the mean number of root impacts/dm 2 observed in this layer on the three profiles. Plants' aboveground organs were collected on three 1 m 2 squares randomly chosen in the experimental plot. The total dry aboveground biomass was calculated on a soil area basis. Dry matter content of leaves and stems were calculated from the fresh and dry leaf weights. The dry matter content of the aboveground biomass (DMC) was calculated after drying at 70 • C. N content on a mass basis and C/N ratio of the aboveground biomass were determined. The amount of N contained in the aboveground biomass (QN) was calculated as the product of the plant dry aboveground biomass and the N content on a mass basis. 
 The absolute growth rate was determined for 18 cover plants grown in pots in a growth chamber (see Table  2 ). For each cover plant, ten pots of one individual were used. The growth chamber was maintained at 24 • C with a 12/12 h light/dark cycle. Plants were sown in 2 L-pots filled with 70% peat and 30% pozzolana. Pots were fertilized after sowing with 10 g per pot of a slow-release fertilizer (11% N, 11% P 2 O 5 , 18% K 2 O, 2% MgO). Twice a week, the pots were weighed and watered so as to maintain soil water content at field capacity. After watering, the pots were replaced randomly in the growth chamber. For each cover plant, five of the ten replicates were harvested soon after germination, when the first leaves were fully developed. The remaining replicates were harvested after one month. At each date, the leaves were separated and the total leaf area was measured with an image analysis software (WinRhizo Pro, Regent Intruments). The absolute growth rate of the plant leaf area (AGR) was calculated as the difference between the leaf area after one month of growth and the initial leaf area divided by the length of the growth period. 
 The ability of the 28 cover plants to multiply R. similis was assessed in controlled conditions (see Table  2 ). Fifteen replicates of each cover plant were grown in pots filled with sterilized soil and placed in a greenhouse. Pots were watered and adjusted to field capacity daily. A complete slow-release fertilizer was applied once a week (6% N, 20% P 2 O 5 , 31% K 2 O, 1% MgO). Mean temperature in the greenhouse was 24 • C. Two months after sowing, each pot was inoculated with 200 R. similis laboratory grown as monoxenic cultures  
 Shade and light tolerance were assessed from the authors' expert knowledge based on field observations in several sites, in shaded and full sun situations. We assumed that cover plants were light tolerant if, when exposed to full sun, no visible damage could be observed on leaves (yellowing or burning symptoms) and if their growth was not reduced or suppressed. We assumed that cover plants were shade tolerant if they were able to maintain their growth under the shade conditions of the banana canopy. Eighteen cover plants among the 28 studied were investigated in experiment 2. For the ten remaining cover plants, AGR was qualitatively determined from our field observations by comparing their early growth with that of the plants in 2. 
 For each trait, a range of values that enabled the plant to achieve the related functions was determined on the basis of the functioning of the banana agrosystems. Threshold values were determined as explained in the subsequent part of this subsection. For each function, three functional types were identified as a combination of values of traits related to this function. The rating was as follows: 1 if the function was achieved, 0.5 if the function was moderately achieved, and 0 if the function was not achieved (Table  3 ). Cover plants were assigned to functional types according to their combination of trait values. R. similis control. A cover plant unable to multiply R. similis, i.e. exhibiting a multiplication rate lower than 1, was assumed to efficiently control that nematode. Inversely, we assumed that cover plants showing a multiplication rate higher than 5 were unable to control nematodes. 1 and 5 were consequently chosen as threshold values for multiplication rates to assess host status toward R. similis. Rapid spread on the soil surface. Considering the high pressure exerted by weeds on banana plants in the soil and the climatic conditions of the French West Indies, we assumed that, to provide complete weed control, the soil had to be fully covered in the 4 weeks (28 days) following sowing. We also assumed that if the soil was not fully covered after 6 weeks (42 days), the cover plant was ineffective to control weeds. Considering a plant density of 9 plants/m 2 , the soil was fully covered if an individual plant covered 0.11 m 2 . As a consequence, the plant had to grow 40 and 26 cm 2 /plant/day for the soil to be fully covered after respectively 28 and 42 days. Persistent soil surface colonization. Perennial (or pluri-annual) cover plants that can spread indefinitely because of their vegetative propagation modes were considered as fully achieving the function. In banana agrosystems, we hypothesized that vegetative propagation of cover plants was sufficient to counterbalance the mechanical damage caused by pests and workers' trampling but that sexual propagation was not, and that vegetative propagation was even stimulated by such damage (emission of stolons and plant growth from cuttings). As a consequence, perennial (or pluriannual) cover plants without the ability to vegetatively propagate themselves were considered as moderately achieving the function. Cover plants with none of these traits values were considered as not achieving the function. Physical barrier. Weeds can be controlled by the mulch layer resulting from plant cover destruction at the end of the fallowing period. The layer has to be thick until the banana is able to relay the mulch effect by the shade its canopy provides and the soil cover resulting from crop residues. We assumed that this critical period for weed control lasted from banana plantation to flowering of the first cycle (about 6 months). Weed control is efficient if the initial mulch thickness is more than 7.5 cm  Avoidance of aboveground competition with banana. Cover plants higher than 1 m were considered strong competitors of banana particularly during the early stage of growth. Twining cover plants were considered moderate competitors because they can rather easily be controlled by periodical cutting around the banana mats. Other cover plants smaller than 1 m were not considered as competitors of banana. Avoidance of belowground competition with banana. We considered that a cover plant was able to strongly compete with banana for soil resources when its RID in the 0-30 cm soil layer was higher than 10 root impacts/dm 2 . This threshold value was determined considering that (i) competition occurred when the zones where roots exert a strong depletion of water and nutrients overlapped, (ii) the mean RID of the banana in the 0-30 cm soil layer is around 1.5/dm 2  Facilitation of growth through N return. C/N ratio higher than 24 favors N uptake by microbes and thus decreases the amount of mineral N available for the banana  
 The combination of all functional types of a cover plant was defined as its "functional profile". A cover plant's functional profile was represented by a barplot in which bars are the level of achievement of each function. This served to describe the overall potential of the cover plant to achieve the functions expected from a banana agrosystem. We identified four usages of these plants in banana cropping systems of the French West Indies: fallow destroyed to provide mulch, fallow followed by banana -cover plant intercropping, banana -cover plant intercropping, and use as fallow and intercropping as well (multipurpose cover). These usages and the functions required for each of them were determined from the identification of the production constraints specific to these systems, according to an expert-based approach to the design of innovative cropping system  The distances between the plant functional profiles and the distances between these profiles and the functional profiles required for each usage were analyzed with R software (R Core Team, 2013). A hierarchical cluster analysis using the complete linkage method and Euclidian distances was conducted to analyze distances between plants' functional profiles  
 
 The potential to control R. similis was assessed from the host status. Host status of the cover plants ranged from 0 to 49 (Fig.  1 ). Numerous cover plants, particularly species known for their pest repellant properties like Tagetes patula, Ricinus communis, or Crotalaria spp. had a host status of 0, indicating that they did not multiply (NMC) and an index that represents the plant potential to achieve the function: 1 means that the function is fully achieved, 0.5 means that the function is moderately achieved, and 0 means that the function is not achieved. Letters are species codes; see Table  1  for their full names. R. similis at all. As a consequence, 17 cover plants among the 28 studied belonged to functional type NMC 1 and were expected to control R. similis. Only five cover plants belonged to functional type NMC 0.5 and were expected to control R. similis moderately: pascuorum, Dolichos lablab, Stylosanthes guianensis, Arachis pintoi, and Brachiaria ruzziziensis. Functional type NMC 0 was composed of the cultivars of Sorghum bicolor and Vigna unguiculata and of the legume Sesbania cericea. These cover plants multiplied R. similis strongly. The potential to spread rapidly on the soil surface was assessed from AGR. Within the cover plants studied we observed a continuum of AGR values from 9 to 82 cm 2 /plant/day (Fig.  2 ). Three functional types were defined within this range. Functional type RSC 1 was composed of grasses (B. ruzziziensis, Brachiaria decumbens, and Eleusine coracana), two legumes, Neonotonia wightii and V. unguiculata, and T. patula. These cover plants were expected to be the most efficient to control weeds by rapid spread on the soil surface. In contrast, cover plants of functional type RSC 0 , like some of the Crotalaria spp., A. pintoi, and S. guianensis, were the slowest growing cover plants. The potential to have persistent soil surface colonization was assessed from the duration of the plant's life cycle and its ability to propagate by vegetative multiplying. As expected, none of the Absolute growth rate of the plant leaf area (AGR), measured in controlled conditions on 18 of the cover plants studied. AGR indicates the potential of cover plants to spread rapidly on the soil surface. The dotted lines indicate the threshold values of AGR for the function to be achieved. Functional types are indicated in italics by the function code (RSC) and an index that represents the plant potential to achieve the function: 1 means that the function is fully achieved, 0.5 means that the function is moderately achieved, and 0 means that the function is not achieved. Letters are species codes; see Table  1  for their full names.   1  for their full names. annual cover plants had vegetative propagation (Fig.  3 ). Inversely, the majority of the pluri-annuals and perennials were able to develop vegetatively. These plants belonged to functional type PSC 1 , expected to control weeds in the long term. Functional type PSC 1 was composed of well-known cover plants like Brachiaria spp., A. pintoi, D. lablab, and N. wightii. Functional type PSC 0.5 was mainly composed of shrubby plants like Gliricidia sepium, Crotalaria zanzibarica, Cajanus cajan, and R. communis. They provided lasting cover but did not have the capability to colonize the soil extensively. The potential to provide an effective physical barrier to weed germination and emergence was assessed from aboveground dry biomass and DMC. Within the cover plants studied, few had a biomass high enough to provide this barrier (higher than 0.75 kg/m 2 , see Section 2) (Fig.  4 ). The cover plants that had DMC higher than 25%, which ensured a slow degradation of the mulch they produced after their destruction, had a biomass high enough to provide this physical barrier (>1 kg/m 2 , see Section 2). Among these plants were grasses (B. decumbens, Brachiaria ruziziensis, and Cynodon dactylon) and shrubby plants (S. cericea, G. sepium, C. zanzibarica, and C. cajan). They belonged to functional type PHB 1 . Most of the plants belonged to functional type PHB 0 and are not expected to provide an effective physical barrier against weed germination and emergence. The potential to avoid competition aboveground with banana was assessed from plant height and growth habit. Numerous cover plants, among them Crotalaria spp. and shrubby plants, belonged to functional type AGC 0 and were expected to strongly compete with banana for light (Fig.  5 ). D. lablab, N. wightii and Pueraria phaseolides, three widely used cover plants, were twining and thus able to climb onto the banana. They belonged to functional type AGC 0.5 . The potential to avoid competition with banana for soil resources was assessed from RID and aboveground dry biomass. The highest values of RID were for grasses (up to 27/dm 2 ): B. decumbens, B. ruziziensis, and Paspalum notatum (Fig.  6 ). These grasses, C. dactylon, two Crotalaria spp. (Crotalaria spectabilis and Crotalaria juncea) and S. cericea constituted functional type BGC 0 and are expected to compete strongly with banana for soil resources. However, most of the cover plants had RID lower than 10/dm 2 and an aboveground dry biomass lower than 1 kg/m 2 and were not expected to compete with banana (functional type BGC 0 ). The dotted lines indicate their threshold values for the function to be achieved. Functional types are indicated in italics by the function code (PHB) and an index that represents the plant potential to achieve the function: 1 means that the function is fully achieved, 0.5 means that the function is moderately achieved, and 0 means that the function is not achieved. Letters are species codes; see Table  1  for their full names. The potential to return a high amount of N available for the banana was assessed from QN and C/N. For most of the cover plants, C/N was lower than the threshold value (24) or just above (Fig.  7 ). However, the two species of Brachiaria had a very high C/N. QN varied widely, from 0.0016 to 0.025 kg/m 2 . Numerous cover plants belonged to functional type NRT 1 and were expected to return a high amount of N available for the banana. Most of them were index that represents the plant potential to achieve the function: 1 means that the function is fully achieved, 0.5 means that the function is moderately achieved, and 0 means that the function is not achieved. Letters are species codes; see Table  1  for their full names.       3  for their full names). The height of each bar indicates the level of achievement of the function (0, 0.5, 1) (see axis at the top right corner). Species codes are indicated at the left of the barplots (see Table  1  for their full names). Asterisks indicate functional type of rapid spread on soil surface determined on the basis of AGR assessed from expert knowledge. 
 None of the 28 cover plants belonged only to functional types with indices 0 (meaning that none of the functions were achieved). Conversely, none of the cover plants belonged only to functional types with indices 1 (meaning that all the functions were achieved) (Fig.  8 ). Most of the cover plants studied were interesting for some functions but not for others. Cover plants that control nematodes were not necessarily the best ones to control weeds (e.g. Crotalaria retusa, Crotalaria pallida, T. patula), cover plants that control weeds by soil surface covering were often competitors of banana (e.g. Brachiaria spp., shrubby plants). Distance analysis showed that few cover plants had the same functional profiles. Only Sesamum indicum and E. coracana, C. juncea and C. spectabilis, and the cultivars of V. unguiculata had the same functional profiles (Fig.  9 ). Four clusters with distance within groups lower than 2.0 were identified. While all grasses except E. coracana belonged to the same cluster, Crotalaria spp. belonged to two clusters, indicating some functional variability within this genus. All shrubby plants (G. sepium, C. cajan, C. zanzibarica, R. communis and S. cericea) belonged to the same cluster. The functional profiles required for the four main usages of cover plants in a banana cropping system are reported in Fig.  10 . The analysis of distances between plants' functional profiles and profiles required for each usage showed that plant the former rarely corresponded to the latter required for usages in a banana cropping system (Table  4 ). Only the functional profile of N. wightii corresponded to the profile required for fallow B. None of the plants' functional profiles corresponded to the functional profile required Fig.  9 . Dendogram representing distances between plant functional profiles. It was obtained by hierarchical cluster analysis of cover plants' functional profiles, using complete linkage method. Letters are species codes; see Table  1  for their full names. The dotted line cuts the dendogram into four clusters, within which distances are lower than 2.0. Fig.  10 . Functional profiles required for the types of usages of cover plants identified in a banana cropping system. These functional profiles were defined as a combination of level of achievement of each function (right axis). Fallow A refers to fallow destroyed to provide mulch. Fallow B refers to fallow followed by a banana -cover plant intercropping. Intercropping refers to banana -cover plant intercropping. Multipurpose cover refers to use as fallow and intercropping as well. Function codes are indicated at the bottom of the barplots (see Table  3  for their full names). The height of each bar indicates the level of achievement expected for each function (0, 0.5, 1). Dashed lines indicate that the function was not required for this usage. for fallow A; profile of B. decumbens was the closest, followed by the profiles of C. cajan, C. zanzibarica, and P. phaseolides. B. decumbens achieved all the functions required except facilitation of growth through N return, which it achieved only moderately. The functional profiles of N. wightii and Impatiens waleriana were the closest to the profile required for intercropping, followed by the profiles of D. lablab and P. phaseolides. N. wightii achieved all the functions required but was moderately competitive with banana because of its twining growth habit. I. waleriana achieved the function of rapid spread on the soil surface only moderately. The functional profile of N. wightii was also the closest to the profile required for 
 Distance matrix between the plant functional profiles and the functional profiles required for the four usages of cover plants in banana cropping systems. The lower the distance, the closer the plant functional profile from the required profile for the usage. Distances were calculated on a Euclidian distance basis. Fallow A refers to fallow destroyed to provide mulch. Fallow B refers to fallow followed by a banana -cover plant intercropping. Intercropping refers to banana -cover plant intercropping. Multipurpose cover refers to use as fallow and intercropping as well. See Table  1   multipurpose cover, followed by P. phaseolides. Among the 28 cover plants studied, some had a functional profile that did not correspond to any of the profiles required for these usages but were close to all (e.g. P. phaseolides: distances smaller than 0.71 from all usages). Inversely, other plants like S. cericea or S. bicolor var. BF80 had a functional profile far from the ones of any usage (higher than 1.5). 
 4.1. A simple functional characterization of cover plants describes their potential to achieve the functions expected in banana agrosystems A combination of plant traits that are easy to assess experimentally was used to characterize a collection of 28 cover plants according to their potential to achieve nine functions expected in the banana agrosystems of the French West Indies. Functional profiles were defined to synthesize the overall potential of plants to achieve these functions. They were constructed by the combination of the level of achievement of each function and serve to select plants for effective ecological services. Such a trait-based approach allows characterizing a large diversity of species. More mechanistic descriptions of plant functioning are generally highly time consuming and focus generally on a few species. A similar trait-based approach was developed by Ansquer et al. (  2004 ), who proposed a typology of grasses that grouped species according to their phenology and fodder value on the basis of their leaf dry matter content. This typology was efficiently used both by farmers as a management tool and by scientists  Four groups of cover plants were identified on the basis of the distances between their functional profiles. The diversity of the plant families studied was low. Most of the cover plants studied belonged to the Fabaceae and Poaceae families. As a consequence, divergences and similarities between this functional classification and the taxonomic classification could not be established. However, we found that cultivars of the same species and species of the same genus belonged to the same group (except one Crotalaria spp.), suggesting that functional divergence within species or genus is low. Besides, the groups identified were consistent with trends in an overall morphological description of plants (respectively, mostly grasses, shrubby plants, erected but not shrubby plants of high size, more diverse plants semi-erected, creeping, and twining). 
 Plants' functional profiles, such as the ones presented in this article, could help in selecting the cover plants best suited for a specific usage in a cropping system. So far, there have been few methods for designing multi-species cropping systems  
 The trait-based characterization presented in this article was conducted in monocultures under a defined plant population density to select plants best suited for cover plant usages in the banana cropping systems. However, the design of innovative multi-species cropping systems also requires determining the spatial arrangement of the suited species and their eventual mixture, which optimize the services expected. This gives rise to three challenges. The first challenge is to determine species complementarity, which mainly depends on the nature of plant interactions for resources (competition vs. complementarity), itself dependent on plant spatial arrangement. In a first approximation, plants could be considered compatible if they occupy different aboveground niches and avoid competition for light, assessed from plant size and growth habit. For example, tall erected (e.g. Crotalaria spp.) and medium-sized semi-erected (e.g. B. decumbens) plants were shown to be compatible, as were erected (e.g. I. waleriana) and creeping (e.g. A. pintoi) plants (authors' personal observations). However, a more detailed analysis of plant-plant interactions should be conducted. The analysis of effect and response traits (senso  The second challenge is to predict the effects of plant density and interactions between cover plants on the value plant traits used to assess their potential to provide the main ecological services expected. Indeed, plant trait values may vary with neighbors' traits and population density, mainly because of the decrease in resource availability due to resource sharing. As a consequence, the effects of different spatial arrangements on the traits of an individual plant can be predicted by determining the effects of traits of the neighboring plants on resource availability and the response of traits of the target plants to this resource availability. Such predictions can be done explicitly by simulating resource availability  The third challenge is to determine the effects of the spatial arrangement on the functions resulting from the community. Indeed, different spatial arrangements may lead to different levels of achievement of the functions at the community scale. For example, different spatial arrangements of plants attractive and non-attractive of pests may result in different dynamics of populations. Plant spatial arrangement is used as a pest management strategy  
 A combination of plant traits easy to assess experimentally was used to characterize cover plants by a functional profile that described their potential to achieve several functions expected in the banana agrosystems. When compared to the functional profiles required for different usages of cover plants in the banana cropping systems, plant functional profiles serve to select the best suited species for effective ecological services. Because it is based on traits easy to assess experimentally, such characterization by functional profiles enables one to characterize a large number of species in a standardized way and thus to select plants among a wide diversity. The functional profiles of cover plants presented in this article were constructed under the soil and climate conditions of the French West Indies and according to the specific production constraints of banana cropping systems in this region. They are likely to be transferable to regions with similar environmental conditions and production constraints. Otherwise, because of environmentdriven trait variability, trait values should be re-evaluated, or traits related to the new constraints should be included in the functional characterization. Compared to classical approaches of cropping system design based on the experimental testing of spatial and temporal plant combinations, trait-based approaches save time by focusing on a shortlist of species. As a consequence, such a traitbased approach of cover plants' functionality could be an efficient tool to help design innovative cropping systems including cover plants. However, functional profiles constructed on effect traits alone are insufficient to design complex systems mixing several cover plants and a cash crop. A more comprehensive description of the plant-plant interactions is needed to propose mixtures of cover plants and effective plant spatial arrangements. This represents new challenges in adapting trait-based approaches to agrosystems. Although at an early stage of adaptation to agronomy, trait-based approaches appear as a powerful tool to orient the diversity of an agrosystem toward the ecological functions and services expected.
The dataset presented in this article (doi:10.18167/DVN1/MNMXRZ) provides data on the growth of 17 species of cover crops grown as individuals in growth chamber during one month. It is composed of 17 rows and 18 columns. The first five columns are species names and abbreviation, botanical group and the times of the two plant harvest. The last thirteen columns are aboveground traits: five raw traits (seed mass, leaf area and plant biomass at emergence and after one month) and eight calculated traits (aboveground leaf mass fraction, plant-scale specific leaf area, aboveground leaf area ratio), aboveground absolute and relative growth rates on a biomass basis and on a leaf area basis. Table  1  presents the list of the species names along with their taxonomic groups. Table  2  presents the list of traits along with their units. Fig.  1  represents the diversity of the values obtained for two traits (aboveground specific leaf at the leaf scale and aboveground relative growth rate) for the 17 species of the dataset. 
 The study was conducted in a growth chamber located at the CIRAD experimental station of Neufchateau in Guadeloupe (French West Indies). Seventeen cover crop species (Table  2 ) were grown for one month in pots of 2 L. Each species was grown in ten pots, and one individual per pot was maintained after cotyledons emergence. Details on pot filling materials, seed preparation before sowing and sowing are provided in Damour et al.  Seed mass (SM) was determined after seed oven-drying at 70 C until mass stabilization. When the first leaf was fully developed, five replicates of each species were harvested and pooled [see 1, for details on the harvest method]. The initial leaf area (LA 0 ) was measured with WinRhizo Pro analytical software (Regent Instruments) and the initial aboveground biomass (BM a,0 ) was determined after oven-drying of the whole aboveground parts (at 70 C until weight stabilization). After one month, the five remaining replicates of each species were harvested and pooled. Leaves and stems were separated. The total leaf area at one month (LA 1 ) was measured with WinRhizo Pro and the leaves and stems  
 The data present plant and leaf traits of 17 species of cover crops and could be used by other researchers who need data on these species. The data enable other researchers to compare their own data with this dataset and to extent their analysis. These data could be used in meta-analysis on cover crop traits. biomasses were determined after oven-drying (at 70 C until weight stabilization). The aboveground biomass at one month (BM a,1 ) was calculated as the sum of the leaf and stem biomasses. Eight functional traits associated to leaf area development were then calculated  (1) AGR as ¼ (LA 1 e LA 0 )/(t 1 -t 0 ) (2) The aboveground relative growth rate was calculated both on a biomass basis and on a leaf area basis (RGR a , RGR as respectively), using the equations: RGR a ¼ [ln(BM a,1 ) e ln(BM a,0 )]/(t 1 -t 0 ) (3)  The net assimilation rate (NAR a ) was calculated as the ratio between RGR a and LAR a . All traits, except SLA ps were measured according to the standardized protocols of trait measurements [2].
Farmers manage about 50% of the Earth's surface, excluding boreal lands, desert, rock, and ice  The efficiency-substitution-redesign (E-S-R) framework developed by agricultural scientists  Weak ecological modernization of agriculture aims to increase efficiency (E) of input use to decrease production costs and environmental impacts  Strong ecological modernization of agriculture, hereafter called biodiversity-based agriculture, is similar to "ecologically intensive agriculture" or "eco-functional intensification"  1 ) to generate ecosystem services and in turn drastically reduce the use of exogenous anthropogenic inputs. It requires site-, space-, and time-specific agricultural practices and production systems  Both forms of ecological modernization of agriculture have specific weaknesses and strengths  The objective of this paper is to review and analyze challenges of implementing biodiversity-based agriculture. Three questions led our analysis: (i) How is the body of knowledge of this form of agriculture developed and implemented? (ii) What are the difficulties for practitioners in implementing it and the main issues for managing transition towards biodiversity-based agriculture? (iii) Which kinds of relevant tools and methods can researchers build to support development of biodiversity-based agriculture? Our reflection applies to practitioners who have already decided to begin the transition. Consequently, we do not deal with necessary changes in farmers' representations, beliefs, and values that involve the so-called second and third learning loops and the associated methods for their development (see  2 Concepts, principles, and scientific approaches for biodiversity-based agriculture 2.1 Ecosystem structure, processes, and services One of the most quoted definitions of ecosystem services is that of  Since the Millennium Ecosystem Assessment (MEA 2005), ecosystem services are usually classified into four categories: provisioning services (i.e., products obtained from ecosystems such as food, forage, feed, fiber, and fuel), regulating services (e.g., climate regulation), cultural services (i.e., non-material benefits such as aesthetic and recreational enjoyment), and supporting services, i.e. feedback services, that are necessary for proper delivery of the other three types of services, such as nutrient cycling. Focusing on relations between ecosystem services and agriculture,  The geographic area of ecosystem service production may be different from the area of ecosystem service benefit  Efficiency/substitution-based agriculture aims to increase input-use efficiency by optimizing and synchronizing supplies of biological needs through precision agriculture, substitution of chemical inputs with organic and ecological ones, and improvement of recycling. This contrasts with conventional agriculture, in which limiting and reducing production factors are compensated by high use of anthropegenic inputs. Conversely, biodiversity-based agriculture aims to develop input services as a way to substitute inputs by redesigning farming systems without significantly decreasing agricultural production (Figs.  2  and 3 ), as previously shown in a meta-analysis comparing conventional and organic agriculture  In agricultural systems, ecosystem services are determined by land use management (Fig.  4c ) along with soil and climate conditions. Land use determines spatiotemporal distribution of biotic (biodiversity) components of managed ecosystems (landscape structure) and the state of abiotic components, e.g., soil nutrient and water levels. Both components may boost biological processes (biological regulation and resource capture) and in turn the nature and strength of the services. Biodiversity has recently been recognized as playing a major role in this sequence of events. Three main components of biodiversity can be distinguished in agroecosystems  4a ). It thus has, before all others, a productive function. The second component, associated biodiversity, includes not only all organisms that inhabit cultivated areas or colonize them from surrounding habitats, such as insect pests but also their natural enemies and pollinators, which provide input services and possibly disservices (Fig.  4c ). Last, associated diversity depends on landscape diversity, i.e., the Fig.  2  Synoptic representation of the main characteristics of the efficiency/substitution-based agriculture (brown) and the biodiversitybased agriculture (green), i.e., agricultural production mode based on efficient (optimized) use of anthropogenic inputs to one harnessing biodiversity to promote input (ecosystem) services (biodiversity-based agriculture). These two opposing strategies develop two different types of agroecosystem. The color code (brown to green) indicates the relative intensities of inputs (anthropogenic vs. input services) and of the main types of outputs in both strategies. Input services are those provided to farming systems. They correspond to "supporting services" (e.g., soil fertility, microclimate regulation) and "regulating services" (e.g., pollination, natural pest control). Agricultural services (provisioning services) and environmental services (nonmarketed services) are those provided by agriculture to the whole society Fig.  3  Conceptualization of the contribution of anthropogenic inputs vs. input ecosystem services for two different forms of agriculture providing the same level of production. Given the potential production determined by "defining factors," actual production is determined by (abiotic) "limiting factors" and (biotic) "reducing factors"  The above conceptual approaches have been validated by empirical research. For example, a recent meta-analysis  5 ), allow the recovery of high associated biodiversity and a high level of biological control in crop fields  
 Biggs et al. (  2012 ), through their thorough review of the scientific literature and expert knowledge, identified three key properties of the ecosystem to be managed that determine the intensity and resilience of ecosystem services: (i) the functional diversity-redundancy level, (ii) the ecological connectivity level, and (iii) the state of slow dynamic variables. Functional diversity and redundancy determine the degree to which substituting one set of ecosystem components with another can meet a biological function and hence one or several ecosystem services. While high diversity-redundancy is required to reinforce ecosystem services, above a given threshold, it can lead to a system whose functioning is cumbersome, complex, less efficient, less resilient, and with low adaptive capacity. Connectivity describes spatial relations between ecosystem components and landscape elements, e.g., patches). It determines biotic interactions and species dispersion capacities between species habitats  Several authors (e.g.,  -Increasing plant diversity and soil cover through adapted crop sequences, including intercropping and mixtures during and over years, to decrease nutrient and radiation losses (e.g., cover crop to decrease nitrate leaching or recycle nutrients) and increasing above-and underground biomass production and rhizosphere deposition to, in turn, increase biological, physical and chemical soil fertility, and biological regulations (horizontal axis in Fig.  5 ) -Minimizing mechanical and chemical disturbances of soil functioning and, whenever possible, seeding or planting directly into untilled soil to (i) increase soil organic matter of the upper layer (0-5 cm), which can improve some soil physical properties, e.g., water infiltration, and (ii) support development of soil microflora as well as soil micro-, meso-, and macrofauna promoting soil fertility and biological regulation, and hence improve soil structure -Organizing the landscape matrix (spatial crop distribution, grass trip, hedgerow, and other seminatural habitats…) to increase biological regulation (vertical axis in Fig.  5 ) Applying these agroecological principles indeed aims to ensure functional diversity and redundancy, connectivity, and the management of slow variables (oblique axis in Fig.  5 ). At the field level, the objective of rotating crops and mixing plants is to enhance functional complementarity, beneficial biological interactions, and synergisms between plant species and genotypes of the agroecosystem both in time and in space. They consist of spatiotemporal assemblages of annual and/or perennial plants, in association in the landscape and possibly in the field that can include trees, shrubs, pastures, and crops. It aims to provide benefits from "preceding effects" and "cumulative effects". The "previous effects" include changes in physical, chemical, and biological soil states caused by the previous crop having effects on the behavior of the next crop  (i) Soil structural stability (strongly influenced by organic matter content), which has an impact on air, water, nutrient concentrations, distribution, and accessibility by the plants, root growth and morphology (penetration), erosion, or crusting (ii) Organic matter characteristics (of crop residues and soil) that determine microbial activity and nutrient availability (iii) Nutrient cycling based on biologically driven processes, which recouple C, N, and P cycles through, e.g., nitrogen fixing legumes, C/N ratio and mineralization rate of crop residues, and plant-excreted organic acids and/or exogenous enzymes increasing P bioavailability (Drinkwater 2007) (iv) Nutrient losses (and sources of pollutants), such as nitrogen loss, nitrate, and sulfate leaching (v) Weed management via resource competition or allelopathy (vi) Control of pests and diseases via the seven mechanisms presented in Section 2.1. Growing plant mixtures in cash crops (intercrops) and cover crops during the period between cash crops can support Fig.  5  Key mechanisms of agroecological practices: the increase in plant diversity in time (X-axis) and in space (Y-axis) at field, field margin, and landscape levels. They allow development of key properties of agroecosystems that ensure delivery and resilience of ecosystem services: functional diversity, connectivity, and control of "slow variables." The third key principles of an agroecological transition toward a biodiversity-based agriculture, a reduction in soil disturbance, is not explicitly represented in this figure complementary synchronized processes for nutrient capture and recycling, mainly based on complementary root and aboveground biomass morphologies to increase resource capture (e.g.,  At larger spatial scales, landscape configuration and composition, also called the "landscape matrix," strongly determines pest-control processes  Ecological processes at field, farm, and landscape levels may interact strongly. Many pest-management studies have highlighted that adapted management strategies at multiple levels are needed to greatly reduce pesticide use  
 Management strategies aiming to increase provision of input services raise or exacerbate two knowledge issues that science can help address: (i) how to characterize functional biodiversity for sets of organisms  Identifying causes and mechanisms of changes in community structure of plants, animals, and soil biota is a key challenge in ecology for predicting the dynamics of ecosystems and associated services. The need to transfer knowledge gained from single species to a more generalized ecosystem-based approach has led to the development of categorization methods in which species with similar traits (morphological, phenological, physiological, and ecological characteristics) and associated life strategies are classified into ecological groups such as functional groups/types or guilds. Plant-trait approaches can be used to rank species' strategies for capturing resources and abilities to coexist, e.g., in relation to plant architecture: niche complementarity vs. facilitative interactions. These approaches often group species according to their adaptive strategies when faced with changes in their environments (response traits) and/or their function in the ecosystem (effect traits). While taxonomic classification does not indicate the ability of organisms to provide specific ecosystem services (unless exhaustive and accurate databases are available, which is not the case to date), functional compositions of communities are directly related to effect traits  In agriculture, plant-trait approaches are useful, for example, for identifying grain-legume intercrops of cereals that increase forage production effectively  Traits are also particularly useful for identifying cover crops that best limit weed development  At the landscape level, efforts have been made to characterize relations between seminatural habitats (e.g., composition and configuration of hedgerows), forests, and the main features of functional biodiversity, e.g., type of predator and pest populations. To characterize hedgerows and networks of hedgerows, Larcher and Baudry (2012) defined a "grammar" (trees and shrubs of different species, hedgerows, and hedgerow networks) that helps to decipher their structural effects (e.g., height, width, connectivity) and functional effects (e.g., reservoir effect for beneficial insects). It also allows rules for their design and management to be formalized. With a similar objective,  In brief, recent advances in functional ecology and landscape ecology make it possible to better characterize functional diversity for sets of organisms and to better model interactions between environmental factors and ecosystem services. 3 Managing transition towards diversified farming systems and landscapes 
 When seeking to implement biodiversity-based agriculture, farmers have to lead the transition from the current conventional farming systems to diversified systems and, if necessary, to more diversified landscapes. They have to drastically change aspects of the ecosystem they manage. Current systems are highly artificialized and simplified "agrosystems" in which nutrient availability and pest and disease control are mainly managed for a short-term horizon through tillage and use of exogenous anthropogenic inputs. In a diversified system, the management target is an "agroecosystem" in which soil fertility and biological regulations rely mainly on a complex network of ecological processes. The transition at issue here corresponds to a shift from top to bottom in Fig.  2 , from left to right in Fig.  3 , and from bottom left to top right in Fig.  5 . In diversified systems, farmers seek to avoid soil disturbance to favor beneficial associated biodiversity and use exogenous inputs sparingly to not reduce expected short-and long-term benefits of input ecosystem services  6 ), it is possible that variability in the magnitude of ecosystem services may significantly increase until slow variables and ecosystem structure reach a configuration in which input and output services are provided at the expected levels and, in turn, provide biophysical resilience and recovered stability (less variable performances). For example, positive effects of conservation agriculture, through implementation of its three principles (no-till, permanent soil cover, and crop rotation), may be provided after several years, possibly more than ten. Implementation of only one or two of these principles may lead to negative effects, especially on yields  These sources of uncertainty can make it difficult to design and grow adapted crop mixtures, intercrops (mixtures of species for grain or forage), or crop rotations to provide expected services  1 ). They force farmers to Fig.  6  Representation of the transition as a regime shift from simplified and specialized conventional agricultural systems (involved in efficiency/ substitution-based agriculture or not) to biodiversity-based agricultural systems. The main objective of this transition is to replace anthropogenic inputs by input (ecosystem) services to deliver agricultural services (provisioning services). The variability of input (ecosystem) services is expected to increase during the transition, before recovering to a similar or even lower level, since the new regime is expected to be more resilient than the initial one Table  1  Degrees of uncertainty between agroecological practices and planned and associated biodiversities (from low=1 to high=3 uncertainty) and between biodiversity (both types) and ecosystem services (from "+" means positive effects and "-" means negative one; the number of "+" or "-" indicates the level of effect; "-/+" means effect is site-dependent; "/ " means agricultural practices and biodiversity have no (expected) significant effect deal with relatively complex and incomplete knowledge and thus to implement management while acknowledging these uncertainties. - In addition to uncertainties about biophysical entities and processes, there are social-based uncertainties due to different or contradictory representations of ecosystem services among stakeholders, their respective importance and priority, and the adapted-management mechanisms to use to promote such services  Finally, more than anything, agroecological practices have to be adapted to the unique characteristics of each production site, regardless of the ecosystem processes and services considered (Caporalli 2011). In this way, plant-soil interactions  When implementing biodiversity-based agriculture, while agroecological mechanisms are numerous, the challenge for farmers lies in designing, implementing, and managing consistent cropping and farming systems, and possibly, in interaction with others stakeholders, landscape structures that promote a high level of input services, and consequently of agricultural services in their production situations. In other words, farmers have to identify, in a large space of possible options, the adapted spatiotemporal distribution of planned biodiversities and agroecological practices that allow them to reach their objectives while respecting their constraints. During this transition, while faced with numerous uncertainties and ambiguities, farmers have to identify and implement ill-known complex practices, the effectiveness of which depends greatly on their production situations. 
 Since biodiversity-based agriculture is more context dependent than efficiency/substitution-based agriculture, innovation systems are more knowledge intensive and must combine locally relevant empirical knowledge with scientific process-based knowledge  1 ) requires more training and learning for farmers  To face the uncertainties described above, and ill-known and site-based practices, farmers use a variety of networking devices to support learning, especially sharing experiences with other farmers  Identifying agroecological practices best suited to farmers' production situations and step of the transition requires implementing "adaptive management" processes by trial and error. Adaptive management is a scientific approach particularly adapted to situations with high uncertainty and multiple possible controls via management options  A key aspect of adaptive management is the acknowledgement of uncertainty. It is thus built on devising experiments to reduce that uncertainty and collect information about the system. Stakeholders then learn from the outcomes of their experiments and redesign their management practices based on the knowledge gained. In this way, stakeholders continuously reconsider the effectiveness of the management practices implemented, the accuracy of predicted consequences of actions, the relation between actions and indicators, and learn about trade-offs. Through adaptive management, stakeholders gradually and implicitly acquire a wide range of perceptual and cognitive skills. Adaptive management generally relies on two cyclical and iterative steps: (i) Step 1 aims to define a set of actions, i.e., designing and a monitoring plan based on farmers' objectives. When implementing biodiversity-based agriculture for farming systems, objectives are to design a spatiotemporal distribution of planned biodiversity (e.g., through implementation of crop rotations, crop patterns, crop-livestock interactions, cover crops during fallow periods, and landscape elements) and associated biodiversity that is practice dependent (e.g., sowing timing and sequences, date and method of cover-crop destruction, fertilization, and plant protection). For this task, there is great need for designing and developing tools that can stimulate knowledge exchanges. User-friendliness is also an important key point, as is the accuracy of predicted effects of management practices, because the main objective is to design a coherent foundation of the complex agroecosystem to implement and manage. (ii) Step 2 aims to monitor changes in agroecosystem structure and ecosystem service levels during the transition. The monitoring lasts a few months for annual crops up to several years for setting up no-tillage cropping systems or for "managing" a landscape. Field indicators usable by farmers are essential for monitoring. Feedback can be used to plan management in subsequent years in the same situation or for other farmers in similar contexts. Studies about adaptive management in IPM  In summary, we highlight two main difficulties in implementing biodiversity-based agriculture from current knowledge in ecology and agronomy. The first challenge is that strong uncertainties exist about relations between agricultural practices, ecological processes, and ecosystem services. The second challenge is that agroecological practices required to deliver ecosystem services are site specific. The review shows that an adaptive management approach, focusing on planning and monitoring, can serve as a framework for developing and implementing learning tools tailored for biodiversity-based agriculture and for overcoming the above-mentioned difficulties. 4 Building learning support tools to link principles and actions 
 One great challenge for researchers seeking to provide useful knowledge to farmers implementing biodiversity-based agriculture is to develop learning tools that ease understanding and transfer of this knowledge. Such learning tools aim to facilitate and stimulate learners' cognitive processing, especially in situations of high uncertainty  Developing learning tools to support biodiversity-based agriculture is a particular challenge since: (i) variability and ambiguity in the results of an experiment increase the risk of erroneous learning, in which the learner draws incorrect conclusions, while stochasticity in results can also forestall investigation, when an unlucky first experience discourages further experimentation; (ii) delays between actions and effects due to slow ecological processes can complicate implementation; and (iii) it is difficult to accumulate and organize information produced by experimental and monitoring activities that can be stimulated by learning tools Three main features of learning tools are required to insure their effectiveness in supporting participatory learning and change in practices: saliency, legitimacy, and credibility  For saliency, which is the relevance to the intended users, tools classically must purposely consider characteristics of the context in which users manage and act  For legitimacy, which we define as "respecting stakeholders' values and their management principles," two criteria are pertinent: (i) the transparency of the design tools and (ii) the ability of participants to include their own experiential knowledge when scientific knowledge is lacking or considered to be less suited  Credibility concerns the scientific trustworthiness of the technical evidence and scientific documentation. This feature is provided by the use of up-to-date scientific knowledge and by well-founded design and evaluation methods  
 Considering the biodiversity-based agriculture management issues and expected features of learning tools, we identify in this section the main limits of existing tools based on scientific knowledge and examples of promising ones. To present promising ones, we distinguish tools targeted at assisting farming system and landscape design from those targeted at monitoring ecosystem-service change in these systems, the two key steps of adaptive management (Section 3.2). 
 Researchers, farmers, and agricultural advisors are not wellequipped to deal with complex adaptive system dynamics. Few mechanistic models dealing with agroecosystems address relations among management, biodiversities, and input and agricultural services. Most existing models focus on representations of the plant-soil-atmosphere system with mechanistic modeling of abiotic resources flows (water, N, C, and energy). Recently, some modeling approaches have been developed to represent the impact of cropping practices and agricultural mosaics at the landscape level on pest dynamics (e.g., Lô-Pelzer et al. 2010 for phoma stem canker on oilseed rape;  Unlike mechanistic models, statistical models based on ecological groups have been applied in several fields of ecology. However, they have two limitations: results (i) usually cannot be transferred to sites other than those used to develop the model (i.e. lack generality) and (ii) are usually not useful for developing or managing diversified agroecosystems. For example, knowledge about grassland ecosystem services has greatly increased through the use of the "trait" approach (e.g.,  
 Given the features of learning tools (Section 4.1) and the above-mentioned weaknesses of the main existing tools, we identify two main types of emergent support tools likely to support biodiversity-based agriculture. They are (i) knowledge bases that contain structured scientific facts and empirical information compiled from cumulative experiences and demonstrated skills and that enable biodiversity management to be inferred in specific situations and (ii) model-based games to stimulate knowledge exchange and learning about the effects of planned and associated biodiversity on ecosystem services. We illustrate each with examples of promising tools, and we examine the extent to which the three necessary criteria (saliency, legitimacy, and credibility) are fulfilled. Knowledge bases have been developed recently to help choose cover-crop species by providing information about suitable production situations (main cropping system, climate, and soil) and expected ecosystem services. Some are built from plant-trait-based functional profiles  A second type of knowledge-based approach for dealing with complexity consists of using an inferential method for qualitative hierarchical multiattribute decision modeling, to cope with complexity while searching for operational outputs. Based on a two-level categorization of the degree of endocyclism of harmful organisms,  Model-based games involving scientists, farmers, and other stakeholders combined with biophysical simulation models can be used to perform iterative design and assessment of spatiotemporal distributions of crops, livestock, and seminatural habitats potentially promoting input services. These participatory-design approaches require manipulating "boundary objects"  Extension of model-based game approaches to more complex processes, such as bio-regulation, needs to be envisioned. For example, the interpretation/description methods (grammar) of  
 A tight in situ assessment of effects of agroecological practices requires well-adapted monitoring methods and management indicators able to reveal aspects of agroecosystems that allow effective or potential levels of corresponding ecosystem services to be estimated. At the crop field or pasture level, such aspects first include the soil state, for which several indicators already exist and are used. However, soil has for too long been considered simply a physicochemical support for plants (most soil indicators used in conventional agriculture are related to its abiotic dimensions), and the consideration that it can also be a habitat for a diverse set of living organisms is a new agricultural issue and a key one in the biodiversity-based agriculture process. Indicators of the balance among noxious, beneficial, and neutral organisms, hence of the real or potential natural pest control of soil, thus have to be made available to farmers, in a simplified form if possible. Above the soil, indicators for planned biodiversity (plants and animals) are also needed. Obviously, many focused on growth dynamics are already available, but new ones are undoubtedly needed for monitoring its effective health and potential health, e.g., at the entire farm level, by estimating the quality of seminatural habitats for sheltering beneficial mobile arthropods that deliver services of pollination and natural pest control. Hence, simple and easy-toimplement indicators about these mobile-agent-based ecosystem services must also be made available to farmers  The visual soil assessment method  Despite the close relation between agriculture and biodiversity, surprisingly, little is known about the status of farmland biodiversity and how it changes under different farming practices. A new toolbox, called the "BioBio indicator set," has recently been developed for a variety of farm types and scales in Europe. It is the fruit of a close collaboration among scientists, environmentalists, and farmers, which imparts a good saliency. It measures 23 indicators on farms, addressing all components of farmland biodiversity and management practices. Although this indicator set has recently been developed, its frequent use in international publications for scientists (e.g.,  For pollination, the FAO developed a standardized method developed by scientists to assess pollination intensity and detect possible pollination deficits in crops  In summary, we identified two main types of emergent support tools likely to contribute to the design and the implementation of biodiversity-based farming systems and landscapes: (i) knowledge bases containing scientific supports and experiential knowledge and (ii) model-based games. Coupled with well-tailored field or management indicators, they allow effects of agroecological practices on biodiversity and ecosystem services to be monitored. 
 Biodiversity-based agriculture allows several agricultural aspects of the current multidomain crisis to be addressed. It provides a range of ecosystem services allowing chemical input use to be reduced. Compared to the efficiency/ substitution paradigm, biodiversity-based agriculture is more knowledge intensive and requires implementing a more systemic and holistic view of agricultural systems. Currently, biodiversity-based agriculture is marginal, given the current high degree of specialization of farms and regions in productivist rural zones. Some of the principles of biodiversity-based agriculture are partially followed in organic agriculture, conservation agriculture, and IPM, likely due to a partial view of the global challenge that now confronts agriculture. Yet, we have a limited knowledge and understanding of the inherent complexities of biodiversity-based agriculture, leading to few references and little knowledge to use as indicators to support its management. Our review provides guidelines for overcoming the gap between general scientific knowledge and the site-specific knowledge necessary to promote ecosystem services in a wide range of ecological contexts. It yields a doubly challenging research agenda for the development of (i) knowledge about relations among practices, biodiversity, and associated ecosystem services and (ii) learning-support tools used in an adaptive management perspective. This latter key point will demand a paradigm shift for agricultural science. Researchers have to move from constructing decision-support systems applicable only to simple and controlled situations to learning-support tools that represent the complexity of biodiversity-based agriculture and intended to equip stakeholders involved in the transition towards this form of agriculture. It requires combining research in agricultural science with scientifically based research in ecological, management, and knowledgemanagement sciences: -Advances in agricultural science include improving links among knowledge-production methods to build learningsupport tools; analytical and modeling methods that are decontextualized (e.g., experimentation, on-farm observations) need to better fit holistic and contextualized methods based on stakeholder participation. This raises questions about the appropriate level of detail that analytical and modeling methods need to have to represent the key biophysical interactions within farming systems and landscapes. Another challenge concerns the "scaling-out" of research methods and findings, i.e., their extrapolation outside the case studies with which they were developed, calibrated, and evaluated. Other questions relate to tool specifications and how to build generic learning tools suitable for a wide diversity of agricultural contexts. -Advances in ecological science are necessary to characterize planned and associated biodiversity responses to locally controllable drivers, such as agroecological practices at field, farm, and landscape levels, and noncontrollable or exogenous drivers, such as climate change, and effects of biodiversity on ecosystem services. Questions concern the development of indicators to characterize ecosystem services either directly, or indirectly, from related on-farm and landscape biodiversities. Indicators need to be relatively simple but also relevant and userfriendly to be easily applicable to farms and landscapes. -Advances in management science, especially in participatory science  Finally, in more general terms, development of scientific knowledge useful for stakeholders involved in the transition towards biodiversity-based agriculture will require taking the position of "integration and implementation sciences", which (i) attempt to provide sound theoretical and methodological foundations to address societal issues characterized by complexity, uncertainty, change, and imperfection; (ii) are based on systems and complex thinking, participatory methods, and knowledge management and exchange; and (iii) are grounded in practical application and involve a large stakeholder panel. Implementing biodiversity-based agriculture
At the end of the 1960s, Gunnar Myrdal, the future Nobel laureate in economics, was concerned about a widening gap between Europe and India on two counts  Half a century later, when the Indian population has increased 2.5 times, to reach 1,350 billion in 2020, this article 1 builds on and extends Myrdal's reflections on employment and productivities. We first show that, with the Green Revolution, the gap in agricultural yield with the developed world has been closed, whereas the gap in agricultural labour productivity has, in fact, greatly widened. Agricultural income has therefore been incapable of keeping pace with the increase in yields, and the industrial mode of production that led to this increase in yields now reveals a deepening agrarian crisis, with the massive use of inputs costly both in monetary and environ mental terms, and impossible economies of scale (through farm enlargement, consolidation) which, in land-abundant countries, drove the rise in agricultural labour productivity (section 2). Then, we go on to reveal the promises of a type of agroecology called 'natural farming' (and not 'organic agriculture') that has developed since the mid-201 Os in Andhra Pradesh, a State in South India with a population of about 53 million in 2020. This natural farming is being developed to curb the deep agrarian crisis that has prevailed increasingly harshly on the Indian sub-continent. To achieve this, it has pioneered the adoption of technical and organizational innovations that could lead to the first large-scale agroecological transition in the world (section 3). But, in 2019, once these local innovations had been recognized at the All-India level and were likely to benefit from specific budgetary investments from the Union gov ernment, they became the target of lively criticisms orchestrated by the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences and the suppliers of industrial inputs (seeds, fertilizers, pesticides). In the name of science and pro gress, natural farming is accused of following a regres sive path and endangering the country's food security. This virulent attack reveals, on the one hand, the current omnipotence of the industrial socio technical regime and, on the other, a conception of science and progress antithetical to agroecology (con cluding section 4). 
 
 From the West to the East and the North to the South of the planet, agriculture and food have been industri alized, and have come to constitute a dominant socio technical regime that is today described as 'conventional'. What is a sociotechnical regime? And what do we mean by 'industrial'?  
 With the Green Revolution, India embarked upon the industrialization of its agriculture and a shift towards a 'world without agriculture' which also seems to have attracted all other countries: the share of agriculture in the GDP and in employment is decreasing the world over. Up to a certain level, these decreases are obviously desirable as they reflect the growing invol vement of economies in activities other than the mere production of food. But the decrease of agriculture in GDP and in employment do not take place at the same rhythm and can lead, as is the case in most Asian countries, to a structural transformation that we called the 'Lewis Trap'. To characterize and explain the latter, we should start by noting that, in Asian countries in particular (but not only), active agri cultural populations have decreased in terms of per centage but not in absolute value. These populations have even increased in numbers since the 1960s, often considerably (by about 100% in the case of India till 2005). As national net cultivated areas did not increase in the same proportions (via deforestation or other), there has been a fragmenta tion of farm landholdings from one generation to the next. These proliferating micro-farms then had little choice but to compensate for the reduction in their area by boosting their yields with increasingly higher doses of inputs, those recommended and sub sidized by the Green Revolution. Unsurprisingly, due to this process driven by the scarcity of land but also the abundance of fossil energy (which makes it possible to use irrigation and chemical fertilizers at low economic cost), the average food yield per hectare in Asia surpassed that of the OECD countries in the 1990s. The figure below (Figure  1 ) illustrates and quantifies this unprecedented shift by represent ing our 'TALA' identity (Technology, Affluence of land and Labour productivity in Agriculture:  Why is this 'trap' also regarded as 'structural'? It is a structural trap because it is the result of a fairly long historical process, whose path dependence would only be diverted by a major disaster or a change in sociotechnical regime. And it is a trap because the main driver of productivity in an industrial regime is returns to scale, while in Indian agriculture these economies of scale are extremely limited, or even impossible unless people agree in the long-term to be fed on nutritive solutions or medicalised energy bars produced in soilless factories consuming huge amounts of fossil energy. In fact, under the industrial agricultural regime, survival and prosperity are based on becoming 'big and bigger', by constantly increasing land, capital and input intensity to increase the labour productivity of the few who remain in the race. In a finite space, an increase in land per agricul tural worker then implies expelling or 'discharging'  (2) the First and then Second World War, which pri marily killed small peasants; (3) emigration to other -mainly urban -sectors of activity. In the post-war era of welfare states, this eviction of small-scale farmers accelerated with support for failed farms  Between 1970 and 2010 in France, the number of farms and agricultural workers was divided by more than 3 while the average area of a farm increased simi larly, to reach 55 ha in 2010. During the same period in India, the number of farms increased twofold and their average area fell from 2.3-1.2 ha  
 This structural economic trap is hard to escape in India. Either you stay in agriculture and increase your indebtedness to purchase inputs, but this can end in suicide  During this period of high but 'jobless' (EPW, 201 O) economic growth in India (7% a year since 2002) 5 , the trap is even worse with an accelerated degradation of natural factors of production in agri culture: soil, water and biodiversity. The Asian yield race is indeed driven by the rationalities, technical recipes, subsidies and promises of industrial agricul ture, which encourage ever greater specialization in a few agricultural products, with ever greater con sumption of inputs designed to increase their individ ual yield: laboratory genetics, groundwater, fossil energy, chemical fertilizers or growth hormones, pes ticides or antibiotics. The Asian race for yield is there fore also a race for inputs, which are applied with higher intensity per hectare than elsewhere (Europe, the Americas, Africa ... ), moreover financial and human capital is lacking to optimize their use. Hence, the erosion of biodiversity, the exhaustion of ground water, the water pollution with fertilizers, pesticides or antibiotics, the depletion of natural soil fertility, the massive emission of greenhouse gases, etc., are all more severe than elsewhere. To this disturbing over view we can add increased vulnerability to economic and climatic shocks given the specialization of pro ductions and the increasing introduction of artificial elements into their environment. Last but not least, there is also a deterioration in public health, with a few cheap food products, which are neither balanced (persistence of under nutrition and rise in malnutrition in lndia) 6 , nor healthy (cancer epidemics attributed to pesticides). This pervasive and worrying situation is par ticularly true of Punjab, the champion of the Green Revolution, with yields far superior to those in France.7 This small state in North India became the country's granary, but it achieved this by practicing wheat monoculture after rice monoculture, with public incentive prices restricted to these two crops, a 100% irrigated agricultural area and almost 2 billion dollars a year of public subsidies for pumping ground water and applying chemical fertilizers. Punjabi indus trial performance in wheat and rice comes at a cost: an ecological, economic, social, health and public finance disaster now well documented (e.g. Bhullar, 2018;  
 
 At the end of the Second World War, when fossil fuel cost next to nothing and international panels like the IPCC (International Panel on Climate Change) or the IPBES (Intergovernmental Science-Policy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services) did not exist, it seemed obvious that industrializing agriculture (its so called 'modernization') was the most efficient means to meet the food needs of a growing human population. Half a century later, we realize how pre sumptuous this path was, as it seems to show a com plete misunderstanding of how agricultural productivity can be increased in an efficient and sus tainable way. Indeed, in order to be far more pro ductive, fair and sustainable, should we not instead have gambled on the amazing productive capacity of nature, although our level of knowledge of its highly complex functioning is only in its earliest stages? It is this approach -supporting the productive capacity of nature to meet our growing needs -that agroecology is backing today. Agroecology is 'a science, a movement and a practice'  All in all, today's societies have to choose between two contrasting paths: (i) continue to massively produce a few products that are processed and assembled downstream, where market values, invest ments and jobs are increasingly concentrated, particu larly to resolve the social and environmental flaws in the system (rising cost of healthcare, water treatment, soil restoration, fight against climate change), or (ii) produce in symbiosis in and with nature, with markets values, investments and jobs concentrated upstream to provide a diversity of quality products, as well as services (currently unpaid) such as water filtering or soil carbon storage (www.4p1000.org). Agroecology is clearly rooted in the latter path. It would then make agriculture a feature of both the primary and the tertiary sector (or even secondary, if processing and packaging are carried out at the pro duction site), and would cast aside the canon of linear structural transformation that leads to a 'world without agriculture'. Above all, and primarily, it would give a clear comparative advantage to micro-farms in Asia, and those which are likely to multiply in Africa  
 Natural Farming in Andhra Pradesh, known as 'Andhra Pradesh Zero Budget Natural Farming' or 'AP-ZBNF' until 2019, is a unique illustration for us both of the political choice of agroecology and of the sociotechni cal path agroecology can follow to be upscaled. This choice and this path arouse enthusiasm and even passion, which we have attempted to transcribe in this and the following sections, through statements made by its supporters whom we have accompanied, listened to, or read for over two years. Let us start with the 12-page illustrated 'conceptual note', published in September 2019 by RySS, the public company that institutionalized AP-ZBNF (see next section). This note (RySS, 2019a) starts by describing the impor tance of agriculture in India, particularly in terms of employment. It goes on to list five challenges to be faced and why they exist (summarized in brackets hereafter): (1) farmer distress (high dependency on chemical fertilizers and pesticides, high cost of cultiva tion, perpetual cycle of debt, climate and market uncertainty, drying up of borewells, landless labourers or insecure tenants, distress migration to urban areas ... ); (2) consumer food and health crisis (chemical resi dues in food, low nutrient content, almost 1.7 billion Indians to feed in 2050, shrinking of arable land due to urbanization, climate change, etc.); (3) soil, water and biodiversity degradation (due to chemical agricul ture and its monocultures); (4) global warming; (5) climate injustice (the poorest and the least respon sible are the most affected, particularly children, women and landless farmers). Then the note con tinues with a second key section titled 'ZBNF: a trans formational solution'. This section begins with the following words: 'ZBNF is all about farming in harmony with nature, and firmly believes that mother nature has solution to all kinds of human-induced pro blems in agriculture and food sector. As an alternative to the current agriculture practices, ZBNF has emerged as a transformational technology. ZBNF safeguards our collective future by: (1) Reducing cost of cultivation and risks, and increasing yields, thereby generating regular income and make agriculture more climate resi lient; (2) Producing more food, safe and nutritious food that is free of chemicals; (3) Reducing the migration of youth from villages and creates reverse migration to vil lages; (4) Enhancing soil health, water conservation, regenerating coastal ecosystems and biodiversity. ZBNF incorporates best practices from various agroeco logy practices for climate change adaptation. To name a few, Regenerative Agriculture, Conservation Agriculture, Silvopasture, Tree intercropping, Multi-strata Agrofores try, Farmland restoration, System of Rice Intensification, Nutrient Management and Farmland Irrigation'. In the 4-page brochure published at the same time (RySS, 2019b), the technological affiliation is more clearly stated: 'In international classification, ZBNF comes under climate change resilient Agroecology, more specifically under 'Regenerative agriculture' [  Thus, 'All these practices put together increases the humus content in the soil that fuels the vast number of organisms above and below the soil. This entire soil food web is what enhances the agriculture productivity, biodiversity, carbon sequestration and water avail ability' (RySS, 2019a). On the latter point, the harves ting of water vapour could reach incredible volumes ('rivers of water in the air': Jehne, 2019;  
 The AP-ZBNF 'transformational solution' is not limited to the techniques presented above. They are only one ingredient of a thinking on change. According to our analysis, this thinking of change has managed to emerge and was implemented due to at least seven factors: (1) the freedom of thought and initiatives permitted in a democracy; (2) a crisis, the agrarian crisis described above that has contributed considerably to spreading a ques tioning or criticisms of the dominant sociotechnical regime; (3) the prior existence of an alternative socio technical (or even technico-spiritual) niche: the one occupied by Subhash Palekar, the innovative Indian guru of natural farming; (4) a State with an experi enced and charismatic senior civil servant: T. Vijay Kumar, a man capable of designing and developing a public policy that connects the aspirations for change from the grassroots to the administrative apparatus and its government; (5) a not-for-profit public company flexible enough to independently manage the inflow and outflow of funds, including for staff recruitment: the RySS; (6) earmarked funds, of public but also private origin; (7) a range of orga nizational innovations to orchestrate the entire project and develop the sociotechnical niche at a sufficiently large scale to undermine, or even replace, the dominant sociotechnical regime. The conductor of the orchestra is hence T. Vijay Kumar (see also  Subhash Palekar, a farmer and the son of a farmer from Maharashtra, a graduate in agricultural science, and as much a disciple of forest ecosystems as of Mahatma Gandhi, hence captivated the Chief Minister of Andhra Pradesh. But he is also capable of channel ling the aspirations of millions of micro-farmers, something T. Vijay Kumar had well understood when he invited him to come and teach in Andhra Pradesh. Several winter schools (as they generally take place in December) were then organized, assem bling 5000-9000 people each time for a period of 8 days. It is moving to see the numerous women fasci nated by the course, with a baby at their breast and a small notebook in hand. Their concentration is all the more surprising as the teaching takes the form of a monologue, moreover in English interrupted by lengthy translations, as Subhash Palekar does not speak Telugu (the language spoken in Andhra). But he speaks to them of the misdeeds and impasses of industrial agriculture, which these micro-farmers know only too well. He also talks of climate change, and goes on to explain the technical and scientific bases of ZBNF, and the opportunity to finally combine the following in harmony with nature and Indian philosophy: (i) science and techniques, (ii) local resources and knowledge, (iii) community life. In a fertile terrain, Palekar hence converts the indus trial agricultural model into an anti-model. More uniquely, he does the same with organic agriculture, which he states is 'worse than the atom bomb' (Times of India, 22/07/2019), declaring that 'None of the organic farming techniques are from India' (for example vermicompost would be a British concept and garbage enzyme, Chinese); they 'don't suit Indian conditions and only add to greenhouse gas emissions'. 1 7 Palekar thus finds himself under fire from two communities which are also competing internationally  With Palekar, ZBNF spread in the Southern states, particularly in Kerala  This apparently greater well-being did not spread without a final ingredient, which is the most impre ssive from our viewpoint: organizational innovations, which cannot be described in a single article given the innumerable local versions and the huge number of actors involved. We will only provide an excerpt of the concept note here (RySS, 2019a): 'Rythu Sadhikara Samstha under the aegis of Depart ment of Agriculture have been firmly believing in three important theories of change in implementing ZBNF programme: (1) Transformation should happen in a democratic way wherein women SHGs and farmer institutions are involved in programme plan ning, implementation and monitoring; (2) Knowledge dissemination and handholding support is constantly provided through farmer-driven extension architecture led by Community Resource Persons [CRP]; (3) Satu ration of entire village, cluster, Manda/ and the state (in that order) involves converting all villages, all farmers, all farms and all practices leading to a total transformation'. This theory is implemented following a complex organizational schema, seeking to develop constant collective learning, with no real bases or leaders, or even a hierarchy (see box herafter). The goal of 'saturation' first targets the village, and it is hence at this scale that a 'bio-village' certification is envisaged, once all the farmers and areas of the village have been converted. This certification would be collective (of PGS type:  
 • SPMU: State Program Management Unit, with its Executive Vice Chairman (EVC: T. Vijay Kumar) and the RySS staff (project executives, facilitators, recruiters, accountants, public relations staff ... ) • SRP: State Resource Persons, including those from the TSU (APPl's Technical Support Unit) • DGF and FFS: Digital Green Foundation (to provide teaching tools, pico-video projectors, etc.) and Farmer Field Schools (with FAO guidance) • RNGO and FNGO: 'Resource' and 'Field' NGOs • DPMU: District Program Management Units • MAO: Mandal Agricultural Officers (civil servants from the Department of Agriculture) • Cluster: group of (roughly) 2000 farmers belonging to 5 GP (Gram Panchayats or village councils), with 1 NFF (Natural Farming Fellow), young agriculture graduate recruited to experiment and show for himself the benefits of natural farming on a rented plot • CRP: Community Resource Persons at the scale of the village community (over 5600 at the beginning of 2020), champions in the practice of natural agriculture with their MT (Master Trainers) • CMSS: Community Managed Seed Systems • Schoolteachers and schoolchildren with their ZBNF kitchen gardens • SHG: Self-Help Groups (over 160,000 at the beginning of 2020): each one has their leader and their federation (over 7000); both below and above everything, these SHGs are viewed as the rea l owners of the programme, its social capital and its platform • ZBNF farmers: 695,000 farmers in April 2020 
 The continuation of the phenomenon of natural farming in Andhra Pradesh could make it the world's first example of large-scale agroecology, pre suming this is not already the case  [ ... ] The Academy is of the considered opinion that there is no scope for an incremental value gained by the farmer or the consumer through ZBNF that re presents one of the many such practices followed in India prior to the 1950s when no more than 50 Mt of food grains could be produced, making ZBNF a techno logy that lacks rationale or acceptability as a production technology'. Thus spoke science and the industrialists of modern agriculture. They are very influential as, in December, the press headlines announced: 'Modi govt supports Zero Budget Natural Farming but doesn't have enough budget to promote it' (The Print, 31/12/2019). Zero budget for Zero Budget Natural Farming, what could be more natural? Has the fight for natural farming in India been lost? Certainly not. But this battle at the national level, and its outcome, shows the persisting highly dominant nature of the industrial sociotechnical regime. It imposes itself via a powerful and rational 'alignment of rules'  AP-ZBNF is nonetheless committed to pursuing its adventure after renaming its community of sciences, movements and practices 'Andhra Pradesh Commu nity-managed Natural Farming' (APCNF) at the begin ning of 2020. As we hope we have demonstrated, this natural farming differs considerably from industrial agriculture in the way it views land and labour produc tivities, as well from organic agriculture if it remains confined within the rationale of industrialization and economies of scale via monocultures merely replacing one set of inputs with another. We also hope we have shown that APCNF, like our vision of agroecology, calls for a science of complexity, of true human autonomy in nature (what we call 'auto-eco-nomics':  7. Between 65,000 to 69,000 plant food kcal per hectare and per day between 201 O and 2013, as against 42-45,000 in France according to FAO production data (CMIE for our calculations by Indian State). 8. According to 5. Palekar, one indigenous cow would suffice to cover the needs of 30 acres (1 2 ha), since the excreta is not used as organic fertilizer (which emits large amounts of greenhouse gasses). 9. According to Vijay Kumar, natural fa rming with 'Pre Monsoon Dry Sowing' (PMDS) developed since 201 9 after previous experiments by Indians such as Subhash Palekar, Subhash Sharma (Maharashtra) or Deepak Suchde (Gujarat), then the scientific support of Walter Jehne (Australia), is a 'global breakthrough' because it allows green coverage and agricultural production for 365 days a year. It is a real economic game-changer in semi-desert areas like in the district of Anantapur in Andhra Pradesh. 365-day green cover is also a powerfu l way to mitigate global wa rming. 10. Indian Admistrative Service: an inseparable fe ature of executive power in India, although IASs are never part of the government. 11. Self-Help Gro up: committee of 10-20 young adults, most often women, who invest a part of their savings to finance a member's project, usually with the support of a bank. 12. From 2000 to 201 O in Andhra (1 1.5 million rural women), then from 201 O to 201 5 with the National Rural Liveli hoods Mission (70 million rural women). Some of these women SGHs and their 'champion fa rmers' have scaled up SRI like in Bihar, perhaps at the expense of landless labourers as in the Janagaon region of Warangal District, Andhra Pradesh
activites/commissions/commission-columa/) 
 Two industrial crops in the hands of family farming systems shape the landscapes in Northern Cameroon and in Réunion: cotton, a perennial plant that is grown as an annual crop, and sugarcane, a perennial crop that regrows annually after cutting (harvesting). In Cameroon, cotton is grown in rotation with cereals (sorghum and maize) and legumes (mainly groundnuts and cowpeas); in Réunion, sugarcane is often maintained for 10 years or more before being removed and replanted, sometimes in rotation with pineapples or vegetables. These two situations have one thing in common: these crops are far from being immediately ground-covering, and weed control operations are therefore required, with herbicides now playing a key role in this process. 
 Intensive cotton growing in Cameroon dates back to the 1950s, at the time of the French protectorate  The following technical package was adopted: food crops, which were sown and weeded by hand as of the first rains, remained the priority, followed by cotton, with shallow tillage used as presowing weed control in order to sow cotton in weed-free soil; fertilisers were also appreciated for their positive carryover effect on the cereal crops grown after cotton. Since the purchase price of cottonseed was guaranteed and known in advance, cotton became established as the main cash crop, while surplus food crops were sold at highly unstable prices subject to the huge fluctuations on local markets. Every farmer grew first one, then two or three quarters of cotton depending on his workforce (family size). 
 After the country's independence  1976, agricultural frontier in south-eastern Bénoué: in the context of an intensification operation with light motorisation for soil preparation (tillage and harrowing) and crop maintenance (ridging), Sodécoton introduced pre-emergence herbicides applied post-sowing to cotton and maize, and thereby set a precedent in French-speaking Africa  
 The introduction of pre-emergence herbicides in the wake of light motorisation had harmful effects on soils. Indeed, harrowing was required to ensure fine soil surfaces in order to maximise the effectiveness of herbicides, but also to "rake" any large weeds not buried by late tillage. However, with the conjunction of very sandy soils, hilly landscapes and intense rainfall, the destruction of surface roughness by harrowing considerably accelerated surface runoff and soil erosion. With the introduction of paraquat in 1987 to kill the weeds not buried by tillage, harrowing was rapidly abandoned without any noticeable loss of effectiveness for pre-emergence herbicides, provided the soil was moist enough, which is generally the case after sowing  Paraquat, which was first introduced as an extemporaneous mixture with pre-emergence herbicides, subsequently enabled the emergence of another major innovation: direct seeding on weeds killed (sometimes forming a mulch). This technique then took off, spreading through all parts of the cotton growing area in response to a range of different constraints (difficulties experienced by motorisation groups, health problems or taxation of oxen by some traditional chiefs engaged in political-driven racketeering, different pressures surrounding the cropping calendar) and providing wider scope for sowing opportunities after suitable rains  In these ways, runoff and soil erosion problems were subsequently mitigated by paraquat.  
 Since 1992, the pre-emergence herbicides popularised by Sodécoton are generic products based on active substances such as diuron for cotton and legumes (mainly groundnuts) and atrazine for maize and sorghum  Farmers rapidly detected synergies between paraquat and diuron or atrazine (respectively inhibitors of photosystems I and II)  Herbicides and family farming, a marriage of convenience? 
 In 1996, glyphosate became the fourth pillar of chemical weed control in Northern Cameroon  Subsequently, and to prepare for any future restrictions on diuron or atrazine, in recent years Sodécoton has diversified its range of selective herbicides by opening up to new binary, preemergence products, but also and above all, to post-emergence herbicides: nicosulfuron for maize, pyrithiobac-sodium for cotton against broadleaf weeds, as well as haloxyfop-R-methyl ester and propaquizafop, two graminicides for cotton and groundnuts  Herbicide use on cotton and food crops has thus entered the mainstream: by 2012, almost all areas under cotton were treated with herbicides; the total area under cotton and food crops with chemical weed control stands at around half a million hectares for more than 200 000 smallholder farmers. Sodécoton, which previously imported herbicides, now just provides technical assistance to the CNPCC (Confederation of Cameroon Cotton Producers), which orders them from importexport companies  
 Herbicides play a key role in Northern Cameroon, so much so that they have altered the range of landscapes. This discreet change was noticed by the geographer Christian Seignobos ( 
 The CNPCC and Sodécoton jointly manage orders of inputs and agricultural material, as well as seasonal credit and equipment loans. Although the area under cotton per producer has doubled and now stands at an average of five quarters (1.25 ha), the available workforce is dwindling (progress in school enrolment, including for girls, and a decline in the attractiveness of farming for young people). From a marginal input, herbicides have become a major priority input, since they secure crop establishment and guarantee the effectiveness of the fertilisers applied sparingly on cotton and intensive maize  In line with this approach to securing crop growth, sales of animal traction machinery for weeding and ridging have long since supplanted those of ploughs (direct seeding with "herbiciding" typically being preferred to post-ploughing seeding)  Complementarity is the rule, despite the introduction of post-emergence treatments, which, in some situations, replace the first mechanical-manual weeding for cotton or ridging for maize  
 Cover crops were successfully tested in the context of participatory research projects in the 2000s. They reduce weed pressure, some of them even fix atmospheric nitrogen (legumes) or can withstand to some extent the dry season. However, their adoption faces problems of cohabitation with transhumant pastoralists and common grazing of crop residues, a holdover from times when human and cattle densities were far lower, and which will undoubtedly evolve over time  With regard to testing for herbicide residues in water, the first samples should be taken in late 2021 (postponed by one year because of a number of constraints, including a break in flight connections with Garoua, Northern Cameroon), potentially in collaboration with the Pasteur Centre in Cameroon. Any pollution found will need to be examined and compared with rainfall events and their consequences on water runoff and soil erosion for surface water, and with infiltration for groundwater, in connection with farming practices and soil organic status (acceptable or degraded). 
 In Réunion, more than elsewhere in France, there is an ever-widening gap between the growing total population and the declining agricultural population. However, agricultural production per worker has continued to increase, despite an unfavourable agricultural landscape, which is mostly mountainous, highly fragmented and very rocky. Thus in 2018, sugarcane, the island's main cash crop, employed fewer than 3 000 planters for around 23 000 ha, or an average of almost 8 ha of sugarcane per planter (compared to 5 ha in the 1970s3). Most of these planters are involved to varying degrees in farm diversification systems, with other high value-added products (fruit and vegetables, grasslands and ruminants, landless livestock systems) (AGRESTE La Réunion, 2019). The mountainous topography of Réunion makes mechanisation problematic, and two thirds of all sugarcane is still harvested by cane knife, with growing difficulty in recruiting cutters. Sugarcane harvesting takes place over five months. The loading of cane into trailers and its transportation to delivery platforms have been fully mechanised since the 1970s; over the same period, the use of selective pre-and post-emergence herbicides became mainstream, after beginning in the 1950s. These two major changes addressed both the growing shortage of farm workers, whether from within or outside the family, and the hardship of farm work throughout the year: full manual weeding using a mattock against Sporobolus africanus, for instance, a plant known as "maries reintées, maris durs" 4 , and manual loading of tons of cane using only arms and shoulders as tools Herbicides and family farming, a marriage of convenience? became increasingly restrictive and ultimately rejected tasks  
 At the start of the 21 st century, while generic herbicides were becoming so popular among family farmers in Northern Cameroon, they were subjected in Réunion to restrictions or withdrawals, which were ramped up from 2007 with the Grenelle Environment Forum and the Ecophyto plans ( Almost 10 years on, sugarcane research has potentially met the objective at the experimental level thanks to a range of alternative methods  
 Ending glyphosate use -by 2020 for the main uses and by 2022 at the latest for all uses: this specific complementary objective of the Ecophyto II+ Plan is set out in its first page  The AGRESTE-CIRAD joint exploitation of data from the 2014 official survey on plant protection practices produced an estimate of 29 to 30 % for the share of glyphosate used in sugarcane fields in 2014  
 Bermuda grass, Cynodon dactylon, known as "chiendent pied-de-poule" (hen's foot dog's tooth grass) or "chiendent fil de fer" (wire dog's tooth grass i.e. wiregrass) in Réunion, grows at the interface between tracks and field margins, among other places  So how do planters control the vigorous advance of wiregrass from tracks into sugarcane fields, knowing that they must reach its perennial root system to neutralise it? This is where the systemic action of glyphosate comes in, by means of one or two spatially bounded annual treatments, applied manually along field margins, treating both tracks and canes at the field-track interface; if necessary, a foray into the field can reduce any invasive pockets  Herbicides and family farming, a marriage of convenience? In Réunion, where the landscapes form a mosaic (4), wiregrass (Cynodon dactylon) protects paths but is a threat to sugarcane (5): glyphosate keeps things under control at the interfaces, without being included in the HTFI of sugarcane. The invasive red-whiskered bulbul (6) disperses fleshy-fruited plants, including several vines that are very aggressive for sugarcane, such as bitter melon (Momordica charantia) (7 and 8). A planter in his sugarcane field (  9 ) applying a late post-emergence treatment (very probably based on 2,4-D) by spray lance, with a flexible hose connected to his tractor. Photo credits: J-Y Hoarau, Cirad (4); Yabalex, SEOR, Réunion (6); C. Gossard, Coroi, Réunion (9); J.  
 A late season, curative, rescue practice targets tall perennial grasses (such as Panicum maximum) that have escaped previous control measures, as an alternative to removing their tufts by mattock to eliminate them. Being more resistant to crushing and more rapid in terms of tillering and elongation, these frenemies, close relatives of sugarcane would become extremely competitive in the next regrowth if they were allowed to slip through cane cutting  These two methods for the targeted, moderate application of glyphosate, one preventive, linear along field margins, and the other curative, directed against big tufts within fields, appear to be onfarm innovations born from necessity. They clearly illustrate the extent to which sugarcane planters in Réunion have adopted and adapted this mainstream agrochemical resource as one of their own tools  
 A dozen (relatively) selective products used pre-and/or post-emergence make up the range of herbicides currently labeled for sugarcane. The early generation herbicides have disappeared, Tropicultura 2295-8010 Volume 39 (2021) Numéro 2, 1775 with the exception of 2,4-D, the oldest of the synthetic chemical herbicides, and metribuzin which, before being approved for use on sugarcane, had widely infiltrated Réunion sugarcane plantations through tomatoes that were once commonly intercropped with sugarcane during the planting year  Regarding the quantities of active substances, sugarcane herbicides represent around 100 tonnes/ year, with 2,4-D accounting for almost half of that amount. Adding the 50 tonnes of glyphosate and another 50 tonnes of non-sugarcane insecticides and fungicides produces the figure of 200 tonnes of pesticides imported and sold annually in Réunion. A specific characteristic of Réunion is that its herbicide treatment frequency index (HTFI) for sugarcane can be estimated at the level of the "Réunion territory", based on sales statistics for herbicides and areas under sugarcane, which are also monitored. This amounts to smoothing stock carry-overs from one season to the next, an approximation that is well suited to the assessment based on three-year averages advocated by the Ecophyto plan  These upward then slightly downward variations in the HFTI are essentially due to 2,4-D, whose particular TFI for the last period (2015-2017) was still at 1.55, which exceeds the maximum approved dose (capped at a TFI of 1)  The auxin herbicide 2,4-D was introduced in the 1950s with two companion products, sodium chlorate and TCA (trichloroacetic acid), and together formed a very popular trio in the Indian Ocean, known as the "Mauritian cocktail" by planters in Réunion and as the "Réunion mixture" by planters in Mauritius  
 Throughout its long history in Réunion, 2,4-D has had many different episodes. The volatile esters of the first formulations, which were harmful to nearby plants, were replaced in the 1970s and 1980s by the current salt formulations. A national restriction was imposed in 2008, under which 2,4-D could only be used in a given plot every other year. A request for reclassification was approved in 2011, with the concession that the annual maximum approved dose was reduced to 2 l/ Herbicides and family farming, a marriage of convenience? ha, compared to 2,4 l/ha until 2002 et 3 l/ha before that  The particular TFI of 2,4-D increased to almost 2 at the beginning of the 2010s. Several factors can explain this "fever"  
 Why are there ever more vines since the 1980s? More than one factor is involved, and as with wiregrass, the fragmented topography of the landscape delineated by banks with rich plant diversity undoubtedly plays a major role  The large seeds of vines have the ability to stagger their emergence. Even late emergence can be dangerous. Capable of emerging through a thick mulch, growing discretely in the shade of canes, or more vigorously in light shafts when there are gaps in the sugarcane, they gradually overtop the cane and cause serious damage: canes become entwined and may be broken or smothered within expansive infestations  In this fight against vines, 2,4-D is not the only herbicide in use, but it is the main one, alongside companion products such as metribuzin and mesotrione, especially in early post-emergence Tropicultura 2295-8010 Volume 39 (2021) Numéro 2, 1775 treatments (when it can be used at lower doses), and two other auxin herbicides, dicamba and fluroxypyr. Dicamba is particularly effective against perennials. Fluroxypyr, close to brush weedkillers, broadens the spectrum of the two other auxin herbicides, especially for "tougher" weeds including woody regrowth; the TFI of 2,4-D, which is currently declining, is more than offset by the increase in the TFI for its companion or complementary products  
 Peasant farming, as it used to be called, has continued to evolve, like the rest of society, and farming families are no longer sent to work in the fields as they used to be, tethered to hoes or to the handles of ploughs. Animal-traction and motorised crop maintenance have certainly progressed, but are far from being as effective as chemical weed control, especially in rugged terrain, on top of other considerations concerning soil conservation or the propagation of perennials. The notions of the profitability of work and site output are undoubtedly central to the inexorable rise in the use of herbicides in Cameroon and to their firm grip on Réunion: "In the past, farmers did not leave things to chance, any more than they do today"  Herbicides, which have been massively adopted and widely accepted, like tractors in Réunion or motorbikes in Cameroon, have become a "common good" to be used with discernment and as sparingly as possible, similar to the WHO (World Health Organization) essential medicines, which are expected to be effective and safe, available and affordable
Trait-based approaches are widely used in ecological and evolutionary research. Historically, the term ''trait'' has naturally moved from the common language to a more scientific one in different disciplines (e.g. quantitative genetics, physiological ecology, functional ecology, population demography, evolutionary physiology, life-history evolution). Following  1 ). Despite some attempts to fix the terminology  A further complication has arisen with the introduction of ''functional traits'', an expression coined with the emergence of functional ecology as a discipline  The aims of this paper are to propose unambiguous definitions of ''traits'' and ''functional traits,'' and to suggest a framework on how traits could be used to address current issues in community and ecosystem ecology. Although some concepts and examples will be drawn from animals, the main focus will be on plants. 
 Two recent papers dealing with the impact of plant functional diversity on ecosystem properties are representative of the degree of confusion in the use of the term ''trait''. In the first one,  4  of Eviner's paper for details), on ecosystem properties such as litter characteristics, labile carbon inputs, and on soil temperature and moisture. In both studies, the dependent variables were defined at the ecosystem level, and were explained by some ''traits'', considered as independent variables. However, as the lists above show, plant ''traits'' characterized the features of individuals, whole communities and even soil conditions. Lumping such different features under the same word ''trait'' therefore mixes very different components of community structure: the number of individuals per unit ground area and the characteristics of these individuals (see ''Integration functions'' below) and, in the case of soil conditions, their environment. Obviously, the factors 
 Finite rate of increase ?  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Finite rate of increase λ 
 Ecosystem functioning  I P-C I C-E 
 Fig.  1 . Pathways linking the challenge of interest of different organizational levels, through their related inherent components, to some examples of traits found in the literature. Without trait-based information, scaling-up to higher organizational levels needs complex integration information (I). Thus fitness components of an individual determine the components of the finite rate of increase (l) of the population (I I Á P ). Occurrence and frequency of species at the community level encompass components of l through complex integration (e.g. biotic interactions) (I P Á C ). Finally, scaling-up to ecosystem properties can be done by combining functional property of each species of the community (I C Á E ). Using traits as proxies of a process at a particular organizational level can sometimes be done without such integration function. For example, at the ecosystem level, ecosystem productivity (one component of ecosystem functioning) shows a strong positive relationship with plant height (an effect trait)  influencing e.g. the number of individuals are likely to be somewhat different from those influencing their characteristics. We argue that using the same term ''trait'' to designate such different aspects of a community can only lead to an unproductive confusion in the identification of the underlying mechanisms controlling community structure and ecosystem functioning.  Given the wide range of research fields that use the term ''trait'' (Fig.  1 ), suggesting a proper definition appears far from trivial. In many cases, a trait is defined at the level of the individual (Table  1 , 2). Noticeable exceptions include traits defined at the plot/ecosystem level as discussed above, and ''demographic traits'' defined at the population level. To avoid confusion, we suggest that traits be used at the level of the individual only, with the following definition: a trait is any morphological, physiological or phenological feature measurable at the individual level, from the cell to the whole-organism level, without reference to the environment or any other level of organization. This definition implies that no information external to the individual (environmental factors) or at any other level of organization (population, community or ecosystem) is required to define a trait. At the population level, we suggest to stick to the terminology used by e.g.  This definition of a trait requires further precisions: (1) the particular value or modality taken by the trait at any place and time is called an ''attribute''  2 ) or through time; (3) the attribute for a trait is usually assessed for one population (average of attributes of a set of individuals) in space and time (i.e. for a single value of the x-axis of Fig.  2 ). This has two consequences. First, there is not a single trait attribute for any particular species (Fig.  2 ). Assessing intra-vs inter-specific variability of traits is clearly of interest in this context  
 Arnold's framework applied to plants The performance of a species in a particular ecological habitat is assessed by the ability of a sample of individuals to grow, reproduce or survive (fitness components in Fig.  1 ). In animals, this ability or Darwinian fitness is assessed by measuring components of whole-organism performance such as body size or age at maturity (Le  3 ). Vegetative biomass represents the net cumulated outcome of all growth and loss processes, reproductive output can be measured by the seed biomass plus the reproductive accessories and/or the number of seeds produced, and plant survival is assessed by a binary variable (an individual is dead or alive in the environmental condition considered) or a probability (in this case, information about a cohort of individuals is needed). The value of these three performance traits is influenced by morphological, physiological and phenological (M-P-P) traits, operating from the cell to the whole plant levels (Fig.  3 ). In the case of vegetative biomass, a convenient framework may be used to unravel relationships between M-P-P traits and performance traits. Vegetative biomass at any time t (VM t ) can be written as: VM t 0VM 0 1e RGR1t (1) this simple equation shows that VM 0 , the initial plant mass (e.g. seed mass in the case of annuals), RGR, the relative growth rate, and t, the duration of active growth, potentially play a role in the determination of the vegetative biomass at the end of a growing season. Recent advances in plant ecophysiology have gone one step forward, and identified the underlying M-P-P traits which had the strongest impacts on RGR  4B ). The M-P-P traits may be inter-related (Fig.  3 ): among a wealth of examples, one such relationship is that between specific leaf area (the ratio of leaf area to leaf dry mass) and net photosynthesic rate observed both at the leaf (Fig.  4A ) and whole-plant (Fig.  4B ) levels. The search for relationships between M-P-P traits and performance traits is an on-going quest in plant ecology  The identification of performance traits imposes a hierarchy among plant traits, which can be important in statistical analysis  The special case of functional traits ''Plant functional trait'' is a currently widely used expression in plant ecology (Dı ´az and Cabido 2001,  2 ). It may be understood as a surrogate of a  
 
 
 Functional traits Performance traits Traits Fig.  3 .  function (e.g. specific leaf area: see above) or as this function itself (e.g. photosynthesis) (Fig.  4A ), with the difficulty to agree on the actual meaning of function  2 ). It may also be considered as a trait that strongly influences organismal performance  Finally, it may be defined with respect to ecosystem functioning  3 ).  2 ). ''Hard'' traits are those which capture the function of interest, but which are either difficult or expensive to measure, while soft traits are surrogates of such functions, but are less difficult and/or expensive to obtain. However this terminology is rather subjective and hardly operational. For example, whether a trait is expensive is relative to the availability and salary of people and/or equipment to make the measurement, while easiness of measurement is often only apparent. A good example is the case of plant height, usually considered as a surrogate of competitive ability. A recent study has clearly shown that for herbaceous species, this assumption is only valid for a certain period of time during growth (Violle et al., unpubl.), which is not particularly easy to assess. As a consequence, we suggest to preclude the use of the hard/soft trait terminology. 
 Environmental factors can be considered as filters constraining which individuals bearing specific attributes of ''response traits'' are able to be sorted out and persist in a community  Following animal ecologists  5 ). Examples   include environmental tolerances (e.g. to shade, drought, heavy-metals, or herbivory), habitat or ecological preferences (e.g. Ellenberg's numbers,  
 Scaling-up from organisms to higher organizational levels is a process of major interest in ecology  1 ). They can be very simple when effects of individuals are additive. For example, the standing biomass of a monospecific community is: Standing biomass i (g m (2 ) 0 N i (nbind m (2 ))B i (g ind (1 ) ( 2) where N i is the number of individuals (nbind) in community i, and B i the average biomass of the individuals. In this example, the integration is made by combining a community-level property (number of individuals per unit ground area) by information at the individual level (plant biomass, one of the three performance traits as discussed above). More complex integration functions have been proposed and used to scale-up from plant traits to communities  From a theoretical perspective, understanding and predicting the functioning of an ecosystem (the highest organization level described in Fig.  1 ) requires the knowledge of the identity of species, the number of individuals of each species and of the attributes of these species (Fig.  1 ). A first step is therefore to assess the relative abundance of species i in a community j (A i,j ), which is a function of the demographic parameters (DP i,j ) of each population composing this community, and the performance traits (PT i,j ) of the individuals from these populations. This can be written as: A ij 0 g t f (PT ij ; DP ij ) dt (3) Time-integration accounts for the age-structure of each population, which is of interest when searching to explain changes in plant community composition. Pros and cons of using demographic parameters in community dynamics is currently lively debated since these are difficult to measure in the field and can increase dramatically with the number of species concerned  Although undoubtedly a long-term goal in ecology, the mapping from performance traits to population dynamics and community structure (I I(P and I P(C integration functions in Fig.  1 ) is currently poorly understood  
 Fig.  5 . Graphical definition of an ecological performance. An ecological performance can be defined as the optimum and/or the breadth of distribution of one of the three performance traits along an environmental gradient; see text for more details.  CFP j 0 X n j k01 A k;j )ET k;j (4) where n j is the number of species sampled in community j, A k,j is the relative abundance of species k in community j, and ET k,j is the effect trait of species k in community j. For example, community-aggregated specific leaf area has been shown to be related to specific above-ground net primary productivity of herbaceous communities (Fig.  4C ). This shows that information on community structure (local abundances of species) and functional identity of species (specific leaf area) can be combined into integration functions (I C Á E in Fig.  1 ) to explain the functioning of ecosystems of known composition. Integration function might be non-linear when the effects of species composition on community dynamics and ecosystem functioning are not additive (e.g. plant-soil feedbacks, complex biotic interactions, functional complementarity;  Acknowledging that species traits have potential impacts at higher organization levels protracts the concept of ''extended phenotype'' Á i.e. the effects of genes at levels higher than the population Á developed in a perspective of a community and ecosystem genetics  
 Plant traits are increasingly used to address questions from organisms to ecosystems and beyond. For the concept to be functional, we suggest to stick to the terminology summarized in Table  3 . The main points are:
Renewables are the world's fastest growing energy source (with an estimated annual growth rate of 15% by 2035) and will play a key role in meeting future energy demands  Sugarcane is recognized as a high potential bioenergy feedstock because of its highly positive energy balance, its photosynthetic efficiency and larger annual biomass yields than most other crops under tropical climatic conditions  Fully tapping the energy potential of sugarcane requires a focus on both the sugar and lignocellulosic compounds of sugarcane biomass, and gaining some insight into the management practices available to optimize sugarcane cropping systems in these respects. More specifically, the main quality characteristics of sugarcane relevant to these objectives include harvest index, fibre concentration [because fibre hampers the sugar extraction process  The objectives of this study were twofold. At field level, we aimed at comparing the yield, biomass partitioning and energy outputs of three sugarcane cultivars under various management scenarios (i.e. irrigation and harvesting system) and climatic conditions. At sugar mill and bioenergy plant levels, we aimed at identifying the most interesting combination between genotypes and management options to maximize both food and energy outputs of sugarcane biomass in relation to climatic conditions. 
 
 Field experiments were located in three contrasting regions of La Reunion Island (Table  1 ). Near-shore experimental sites (control and dry) were situated in 'La Mare' (20°54′S, 55°31′E and 70 m above sea level) and 'Etang Sal e' (21°15′S, 55°22′E and 20 m above sea level) localities and were both planted on a nitisol dystric soil (International Union of Soil Sciences, IUSS Working Group WRB, 2007). Intermediate altitude experimental site (cold) was situated in 'Menciol' (20°58′S, 55°36′E and 400 m above sea level) locality and planted on an andosol dystric soil (International Union of Soil Sciences, IUSS Working Group  Climatological data were collected from several weather stations located close to the dry and cold experimental sites (in a perimeter of 1.0 km) and on-site for the control experimental site. Sugarcane crops were established in 2008 in all three experimental sites, at the end of the rainfall season for the cold and control experimental sites (on March 21st and April 22nd respectively) and in the middle of the dry and cold season for the dry experimental sites (on July 28th). Each trial was planted to three cultivars (R570, R579 and R585) in randomized subplots which consisted of nine lines of 11 m spaced 1.5 m and each treatment was replicated three times. Trials were fertilized annually with 150 kg, 180 kg and 240 kg of N, P and K ha À1 , respectively, in accordance with crop requirements in La Reunion Island  The plant crops were harvested within the last week of October 2009 and the ratoon crops were harvested within the last week of November 2010, both at the age of 12 months. 
 Each subplot was sampled to quantify aerial biomass over a distance of 1 m. Sugarcane stalks were cut at ground level and removed together with the associated dead leaves on the ground. The biomass samples were partitioned into three components: millable stalk; green leaves and tops; and dead leaves or trash (attached and detached dead leaves were mixed). Based on biomass partitioning, two virtual harvesting systems were created: the clean sugarcane (CC) harvest including only millable stalks, and the whole green sugarcane (WGC) harvest including millable stalks and green leaves and tops. Both could be mechanized in practice. Trash biomass usually stays in the field after harvesting as mulch or can be harvested later for various uses, e.g. as pig litter or as cattle feed, as is frequently the case in La Reunion Island. In Brazil and Cuba, trash biomass has also been used for energy carrier production. Fresh weights of the overall biomass (Y B ) and of the biomass components were measured (Mg ha À1 ). Approximately 15 kg of millable stalks was crushed with a cutter grinder (JEFFCO Cutter Grinders, model L118C, JEFFRESS Engineering Pty Ltd, Dry Creek, Australia) to obtain a homogenate sugarcane pulp. A subsample of 1 kg of sugarcane pulp was weighed and pressed for 90 s at 20 000 kPa with a hydraulic press (Pinette Emidecau Industries, hydraulic press model OB-103, Chalon sur Saone, France). Through crushing and pressing, the biomass was split into filter press cake (bagasse) and juice. A subsample of 500 g of green leaves, tops and trash were manually chopped into pieces about 50 mm long in preparation for drying. Bagasse and subsamples of the plant components were weighed fresh and then dried for 3 days at 70 °C in a ventilated incubator (Lequeux, Paris, France) to obtain dry matter concentration (DMC). Juice was analysed for brix (Br) and pol according to the ICUMSA method (International Commission for Uniform Methods of Sugar Analysis, ICUMSA  Dry samples were analysed according to the sequential method of  
 At the field processing level, the net energy yield of the aboveground biomass (E B , in GJ ha À1 ) was calculated as follows: E B ¼ LHV B Â Y B Â DMC ð1Þ where LHV B is the average lower heating value (MJ kg À1 of dry biomass) corresponding to the weighed product of the lower heating values (LHV) of the various plant components and DMC of the aboveground biomass (g 100 g À1 ). LHV B was calculated as follows: LHV B ¼ ððLHV Br Â BrÞ þ ðLHV Hem Â HemÞ þ ðLHV Cel Â CelÞ þ ðLHV Lig Â LigÞÞ=ðDMCÞ ð2Þ where Br is the fraction of sugars (% of fresh biomass) and LHV Br , LHV Hem , LHV Cel and LHV Lig are the LHV of Br, Hem, Cel (17.5 MJ kg À1 ) and Lig (26.6 MJ kg À1 ) respectively. The latter LHV were taken from  At the sugar mill processing level, coproducts (bagasse and molasses), product (recoverable sucrose), potential and net electricity production were computed using a mill-operating model  The potential energy production of 1G ethanol (EtOH 1G , in GJ ha À1 ) from molasses and juice was computed with the method described by  EtOH 1G ¼ ðLHV EtOh Â ED E Â Suc Â ð1 À ðJ Â ðrSuc/SucÞÞÞ Â ð10 6 =947:8Þ Â Y B Þ=1000 ð3Þ where Y B is the fresh biomass yield that would enter the milling process (in Mg ha À1 ), Suc and rSuc are the sucrose and the recoverable sucrose yields (in Mg ha À1 ), J is the fraction of sugarcane juice sent to the recovery plant for raw sugar production (in our case 1 or 0), ED E is the ethanol distillery efficiency (0.51 dry t of ethanol t À1 of sucrose) and (10 6 /947.8) is coefficients given by  The potential energy production of 2G ethanol (EtOH 2G , in GJ ha À1 ) was estimated using the coefficient of conversion (277 l of ethanol t À1 of lignocellulosic biomass) given by  Several pathways were defined to represent current trends in the major sugarcane-producing countries and also to explore potential future uses of sugarcane biomass at an industrial scale (Fig.  1 ). Route 1 is the most widely used option: the process generates bagasse, recoverable sucrose and molasses from sugarcane juice. Bagasse is subsequently used to cogenerate steam and electricity while molasses are usually converted into 1G ethanol. Route 2 is mainly used in Brazil, and its process consists of the cogeneration of steam and electricity from bagasse combustion and the direct conversion of sugarcane juice into 1G ethanol (without prior sugar extraction). It thus provides an alternative to route 1 when sucrose prices are low. Route 3 is more prospective, consisting of the conversion of bagasse and sugarcane juice into 2G and 1G ethanol respectively  
 Factorial analysis of variance  10 ). A linear model was used to analyse the data: Y ijkl ¼ l þ a i þ b j þ c k þ ðabÞ ij þ ðacÞ ik þ ðbcÞ jk þ ðabcÞ ijk þ d kl þ ijkl ð4Þ where Y ijkl is the analysed variable, l the grand mean, a i the G effect, b j the H effect, c k the E effect, (ab), (ac), (bc) and (abc) are the interactions among G, H and E effects, d kl the block effect (nested in E) and e ijkl the residual error. Multiple comparisons of means [low temperature and radiation (cold), and water stress (dry)] were carried out using the Tukey honest significant differences (HSD) test at P < 0.1  
 
 Experimental sites were highly contrasted regarding their location and altitudes (range was from 20 to 400 m above the sea level) which gave each environment a unique thermo-radiative profile (Table  1 ; Fig.  2a-c ). Radiation ranged from 15.7 to 19.0 MJ m À2 , mean air temperatures ranged from 19 to 24.7 °C and thermal time ranged from 8437 to 9454 day for the experimental sites and followed the same decreasing order: Control ≥ Dry > Cold. Rainfall was highly variable between experimental sites. Cumulative rainfall ranged from 981 to 3977 mm for the experimental sites and was in decreasing order: Cold > Control > Dry. Irrigation was substantial for the control experimental site (1025 mm) and for both control and cold experimental sites the water supply was sufficient to avoid water stress during the growing season (Fig.  2d ). For the dry experimental site, the cumulative potential evapotranspiration (PET) was higher than the sum of cumulative rainfall and irrigation (Table  1 ), implying that crops experienced water stress at this site. Even if the water deficit was low (i.e. 100 9 (PETÀ(cumulative rainfall + irrigation))/PET = 8%), the time distribution of rainfall was erratic over the crop cycle, enhancing the magnitude of water stress (Fig.  2d ). 
 Fresh biomass yield increased by 28% on average whereas the dry matter concentration decreased by 1% on average from CC to WGC harvests (Table  2 ). Fresh biomass yields were significantly higher for CC harvest and cultivar R570 in the control environment (170.0 Mg ha À1 ) than in the cold and dry environments (109.3 and 106.7 Mg ha À1 respectively), and WGC harvest and cultivar R585 in the control environment (236.2 Mg ha À1 ) compared to the dry environment (148.0 Mg ha À1 ). The other differences between cultivars and environments were not significant according Tukey HSD test (P < 0.1). whole green sugarcane (WGC) harvesting increased fibre concentration by 13% and decreased brix and sucrose concentration by 8 and 12%, respectively, on average, compared to CC harvesting (Table  3 ). Fibre concentrations were significantly higher for CC and WGC, and cultivar R570 and R579 in the cold environment (42.6 and 51.5 g 100 g À1 for R570 and 39.8 and 47.3 g 100 g À1 for R579) compared to the other environments. For cultivar R585 the control environment presented higher fibre concentration than the dry environment for both harvesting type. Brix concentration for CC harvest and cultivars R570 and R579 was higher in the dry environment (56.1 and 59.6 g 100 g À1 respectively) compared with the other environments and differed only from the control environment for the cultivar R585. For the WGC harvest, the brix concentration of the cultivars R585 and R579 was higher in the dry environment (49.0 and 57.8 g 100 g À1 ) than in the other environments and differed only from the cold environment for the cultivar R570. Sucrose concentration for CC harvest of cultivars R579 and R585 was higher in the dry environment (53.8 and 45.4 g 100 g À1 respectively) compared to the cold and control environments (48.2 g 100 g À1 and 39.5 g 100 g À1 respectively). For the WGC harvest, the sucrose concentrations of cultivar R579 differed significantly between each environment. Cultivars R570 and R585 were higher in the dry environment (47.2 and 42.4 g 100 g À1 respectively) compared to the cold and control environments (37.7 g 100 g À1 and 32.5 g 100 g À1 respectively). Hemicellulose, cellulose and lignin concentrations increased by 19, 10 and 2%, respectively, from CC to WGC harvests (Table  4 ). Hemicellulose concentrations were significantly higher in the cold environment for both type of harvest and all cultivars (range was from 15.9 to 21.4 g 100 g À1 ) compared to the dry environment (range was from 13.9 to 16.4 g 100 g À1 ). It was the same for cellulose concentrations (range was from 18.8 to 24.7 g 100 g À1 for the cold environment and from 15.9 to 20.1 g 100 g À1 for the dry environment) except for the CC harvest and cultivar R585 in the control environment where cellulose concentrations were higher than in the other environments. Lignin concentrations were significantly higher in the cold environment for both type of harvest of cultivar R579 only (4.1 and 4.2 g 100 g À1 ) compared to the dry environment (3.5 and 3.6 g 100 g À1 ). Trash biomass yield did not differ between environments (Table  5 ). Trash biomass of control and cold environments and cultivar R585 had lower dry matter concentration (77.1 and 80.6 g 100 g À1 respectively) compared to the dry environment (88.3 g 100 g À1 ). In the cold environment trash biomass of all cultivars had higher fibre concentrations (range was from 75.0 to 77.7 g 100 g À1 ) compared to the other environments (range was from 70.2 to 75.6 g 100 g À1 ). Trash hemicellulose concentrations of all cultivars were always significantly higher in the cold environment (range was from 31.7 to 32.3 g 100 g À1 ) than in the dry environment (range was from 30.2 to 31.3 g 100 g À1 ). There were no significant differences between cultivars and environments for trash cellulose concentrations (range was from 31.5 to 35.9 g 100 g À1 ). Trash lignin concentrations of all cultivars were always significantly higher in the cold environment (range was from 7.3 to 8.5 g 100 g À1 ) than in the control environment (range was from 6.1 to 7.1 g 100 g À1 ). Net energy increased by 26% from CC to WGC harvests (Table  6 ). Net energy was higher in the control environment for CC harvest and cultivar R570 (892.7 GJ ha À1 ) and for WGC harvest and cultivar R585 (1256.3 GJ ha À1 ) compared to the cold and dry environments (589.0 and 877.3 GJ ha À1 respectively). There were no other significant differences between cultivars and environments. Net energy of trash was higher only in the dry environment for cultivar R585 (224.1 GJ ha À1 ) compared to cold environment (157.0 GJ ha À1 ). The energy content of millable stalks (sucrose included) made up on average 67% (in% of aboveground biomass net energy) of the aboveground biomass net energy, with 34% share from fibre (i.e. fibre energy content = E B /(E B 9 (NDF/(Y B 9 DMC))) and 33% share from sugars (i.e. sugars energy content = E B /(E B 9 (Br/(Y B 9 DMC)))). Energy content of green leaves and tops accounted for on average 17% of the net energy of the aboveground biomass and trash for on average 16%. Energy content of green leaves and tops of  Means with no letters and same letter (lower case for Clean Cane and capitals for Whole Green Cane) for each variety are undifferentiated (P < 0.1) by Tukey's honest significant differences (HSD). all cultivars were significantly higher in the cold environment (range was from 21.3 to 26.7%) than in the dry environment (range was from 9.0 to 10.8%). The cold environment showed lower energy content for trash biomass (in% of aboveground biomass net energy) of cultivars R570 and R585 (16.4 and 12.7% respectively) compared to the dry environment (22.9 and 20.3% respectively). 
 Bagasse, molasses and recoverable sucrose yields can increase by on average 57, 58 and 4%, respectively, from CC to WGC harvests (Table  7 ). Bagasse yields were higher in the control environment for CC and cultivar R570 (43.6 Mg ha À1 ) and for both harvesting systems and cultivar R585 (55.4 and 88.6 Mg ha À1 respectively) compared to the dry environment (28.4, 39.1 and 48.3 Mg ha À1 respectively). There were no differences between environments for the bagasse yields of cultivar R579. Molasses yields were higher in the cold environment for WGC harvest and cultivar R579 (10.5 Mg ha À1 ) compared to the control and dry environments (5.9 and 6.3 Mg ha À1 respectively). Molasses yields were higher in the control environment for both types of harvest and cultivar R585 (6.8 and 10.4 Mg ha À1 respectively) compared to the cold environment for CC harvest (4.5 Mg ha À1 ) and to the dry environment for WGC harvest (6.3 Mg ha À1 ). Recoverable sucrose yield was only higher in the control environment for cultivar R570 compared to the cold environment, and there were no Means with no letters and same letter (lower case for Clean Cane and capitals for Whole Green Cane) for each variety are undifferentiated (P < 0.1) by Tukey's honest significant differences (HSD). Means with no letters and same letter for each variety are undifferentiated (P < 0.1) by Tukey's honest significant differences (HSD). differences between environments for the other cultivars and harvesting types. 
 Potential electricity energy yield, net electricity energy yield for route 1 and for routes 2 and 3 can increase on average by 36, 39 and 37%, respectively, from CC to WGC harvests (Table  8 ). Potential electricity energy yields were higher in the control environment for CC harvest and cultivar R570 (92.0 GJ ha À1 ), and for both harvesting systems and cultivar R585 (115.9 and 161.6 GJ ha À1 respectively) compared to the dry environment (60.4, 82.5 and 93.2 GJ ha À1 respectively). There were no other significant differences between cultivars and environments. Potential electricity energy yields of trash biomass were lower in the control and cold environments for cultivar R585 (30.0 and 26.9 GJ ha À1 respectively) compared to the dry environment (40.1 GJ ha À1 ). Net electricity energy yields for route 1 were higher in the control environment for CC harvest and cultivar R570 (56.2 GJ ha À1 ) and for WGC harvest and cultivar R585 (75.2 and 106.4 GJ ha À1 ) compared to the dry environment (37.3, 52.7 and 59.6 GJ ha À1 ). That was different for cultivar R579 with the net electricity energy yields for route 1 which were Means with no letters and same letter (lower case for Clean Cane and capitals for Whole Green Cane) for each variety are undifferentiated (P < 0.1) by Tukey's honest significant differences (HSD). higher in the cold environment (62.2 GJ ha À1 ) than in the dry environment (39.7 GJ ha À1 ). The same differences as previously mentioned were observed for the net electricity energy yields for routes 2 and 3. 1G ethanol from molasses and juice and 2G ethanol from bagasse yields can increase by on average 51, 10 and 57%, respectively, from CC to WGC harvests (Table  9 ). 1G ethanol from juice yields were higher in the control environment for the CC harvest and cultivar R570 (221.8 GJ ha À1 ) than in the cold environment (143.0 GJ ha À1 ) and there were no differences between environments for the other cultivars and harvesting types. Similar differences were noted between environments for 1G ethanol energy yields from molasses and juice and for 2G ethanol energy yields from bagasse compared to molasses, recoverable sucrose and bagasse yields, respectively, which was expected as we only used a transfer equation Cf. Eqn (2) to extrapolate from mill products to 1G and 2G ethanol. Similarly, there were no differences between environments for the 2G ethanol energy yields from trash biomass, as we used only a conversion factor  
 Statistical comparisons (Tukey's HSD, P < 0.1) showed no significant effect of the environment on LHV B (data not shown). The relative difference between the LHV B of the CC and WGC harvests was very low (<1%). These results were both emphasized by the strong relationship found between E B and the fresh (R 2 = 0.91) and dry (R 2 = 0.99) aboveground biomass, and strongly suggest that LHV B remain constant even across a wide range of variations (Fig.  3a  and b ). At field processing level, the sucrose yields (in Mg ha À1 ) increase simultaneously with the fresh biomass yield (Fig.  3c ). Cultivar R570 was the most affected by environments and presented the largest variation in sucrose yield (coefficient of variation (CV) was 58%). The sucrose yields were always higher in the control and dry environments (range was from 18.6 to 27.3 Mg ha À1 ) than in the cold environment (range was from 15.7 to 23.3 Mg ha À1 ) except for the sucrose yield of WGC harvest and cultivar R585 with the cold environment (23.5 Mg ha À1 ) which was higher than the dry environment (21.7 Mg ha À1 ). At sugar mill processing level, the bagasse yield wasas previously mentioned for the sucrose yielddriven by the fresh biomass yield (Fig.  3d ). Bagasse yield was lower for cultivar R579 compare to the other cultivars which is consistent with the lower fibre concentration exhibited by cultivar R579. At sugar mill and power plant processing level, there was a trade-off between the energy recovered in the various carriers produced and the extra energy needed to extract sugar in the WGC compared to CC harvests (Fig.  3e ). This trade-off was modulated by G, E and H effects and their interactions. Cultivar R570 was the most affected by environments regarding both recoverable sucrose and potential electricity yields (CVs were 60 and 88% respectively). Compared with the other ). The change in harvesting system predominantly affected potential electricity energy production and to a lesser extent the recoverable sucrose yields. The assessment of a sugar mill efficiency is feasible by determining (i) the sucrose losses (rS = 1 -(recoverable sucrose yield/sucrose yield)), which could be expressed as the ratio of sucrose losses to sucrose entering the sugar mill; and (ii) the energy consumption needed to process the sugarcane entering the sugar mill [rE = 1 -(net electricity energy production/potential electricity energy production)] which could be expressed as the ratio of sugar mill energy consumption to net energy production (Fig.  3e ). It appears that rE remains constant by switching from CC to WGC harvesting (0.38-0.39 on average for route 1 and 0.27 on average for routes 2 and 3 respectively). This means that the extra amount of biomass entering the sugar mill and the increase in electricity energy consumption to process this larger amount of biomass are overwhelmingly compensated by the extra amount of electricity produced from this biomass itself. Cultivar R585 (high yield and fibre concentration) performed the best in this respect followed in descending order by cultivars R570 (intermediate fibre and sucrose concentrations) and R579 (low fibre and high sucrose concentrations). Concerning rS, it increased by switching from CC to WGC harvesting (from 0.12 to 0.17) which means that, as currently observed, sucrose losses increase when leaves and tops blend with millable stalks. For CC harvesting, cultivar R570 performed the best (lower sucrose losses) followed in descending order by R579 and R585 (higher sucrose losses), and for WGC harvesting, cultivar R579 performed the best followed in descending order by R570 and R585. 
 The environment significantly affects both aboveground biomass yield and dry matter concentration (Table  10 ). Aboveground biomass yield was significantly affected by the type of harvesting (P < 0.001) as well as by genotypes but to a lesser extent (P < 0.1). Significant genotype-environment (G 9 E) and environment-harvesting system (E 9 H) interactions (P < 0.05 and 0.01 respectively) were also found. Genotypes, environments and harvesting systems effects (G, E and H respectively) significantly affect dry matter concentration and a significant E 9 H interaction (P < 0.1) was found. Fibre concentration was significantly affected by G, E and H effects as well as interactions between all these effects. Brix and sucrose concentrations were significantly affected by G, E and H effects as well as G 9 E and E 9 H interactions. G, E and H effects significantly affected hemicellulose and cellulose concentrations and significant interactions between all these effects were also found. Lignin concentration was affected by G, E and H effects and a significant E 9 H interaction was found. Energy yield was significantly affected by G, E and H effects and significant G 9 E and E 9 H interactions were found. G, E and H effects significantly affected bagasse and molasses yields with also significant G 9 E and E 9 H interactions. Recoverable sucrose yield was only significantly affected by the environment. G, E and H effects significantly affected potential electricity energy and 2G ethanol energy from bagasse yields with also significant interactions among all these effects. Net electricity energy for route 1 and routes 2 and 3, and 1G ethanol from molasses were affected by  O P T I M I Z A T I O N O F S U G A R C A N E A S A M U L T I P U R P O S E C R O P 51 G, E and H effects with also significant G 9 E and E 9 H interactions. 1G ethanol energy from juice was only affected by G and H effects. The ANOVA analysis showed that the variables studied are affected by a complicated interaction between effects and G, E and H interactions which made interpretation too complicated to present relevant discussions in this study. 
 
 The control environment had the best potential climatologic conditions to meet sugarcane crop requirements for an optimal growth with higher mean radiation and thermal time, and no water stress over the growing season (Table  1 ; Fig.  2 ). Indeed, according to Inman-Bamber (1994) warm temperature without water stress will promote leaf appearance and at the same time interception efficiency which will finally result in a high conversion rate of radiation into biomass. Compared with the cold and dry environments, the mean radiation was 17 and 11% lower, the thermal time was 11 and 2% lower and the water deficit was 0 and 7% lower than at the control environment respectively. Water stress appeared to be the most influential factor for yield and can cause reduction in yield of 18-38% for CC harvest and of 32-42% for WGC harvest (Table  2 ), in line with results showed in previous studies  10 ) suggest that yield was strongly modulated by environmental conditions and management options rather than genotypes as mentioned by  The dry matter concentration was clearly enhanced by water stress and as a result was higher in the dry environment for all cultivars and harvesting systems compared to the other environments (Table  2 ). This result highlighted the fact that dry matter concentration was clearly promoted under water stress conditions as shown in similar conditions by  10 ) showed that dry matter concentration was affected by genotype as well. DRY matter concentration of cultivar R579 was obviously lower than for the other cultivars. This observation can be confirmed by the fact that cultivar R579 has high sucrose content and the inhibition of the photosynthesis (growth) due to sucrose accumulation  Fibre concentration differed between environments (Table  3 ), being highest when climatological conditions were optimal for crop growth (control environment), and lowest when stresses occurred (dry environment), in particular water-related stress as mentioned in several studies  Brix and/or sucrose accumulations in millable stalks were clearly enhanced by water stress (Table  3 ), as mentioned by several authors  10 ) point out that sucrose accumulation can be modulated by environmental and practice changes and also that genotypes can be affected differently by these changes. Brix concentrations globally follow the same trends as sucrose concentrations. Lignocellulosic compounds concentrations were affected by genotypes, environments and harvesting systems (Table  4 ). At first sight, hemicellulose, cellulose and lignin concentrations were enhanced by cooler temperature and low radiation conditions (cold environment) and reduced by water stress (dry environment). These assumptions worked out well for cultivars R570 and R579 and both harvesting systems but not for cultivar R585 (high yield and fibre concentration). Indeed, hemicellulose, cellulose and lignin concentrations were higher for cultivar R585 in the control environment. Cultivar R585 has higher fibre and lower sucrose concentrations which would mean that sucrose concentration could play a key role in the regulation phenomenon of lignocellulosic compounds synthesis pathway. However, all these results regarding lignocellulosic compounds concentrations must be balanced by the fact that LHV remained roughly constant across a wide range of cultivars and biomass components as was reported in previous work  Climatologic conditions lead to large differences in net energy yield (Table  6 ). These observations are supported by the strong relationship between biomass and energy yields (Fig.  3a  and b ), and imply that aboveground biomass yield accounts to a large extent for the variability in the biomass energy yield across environments, genotypes and harvesting systems. Energy content of the millable stalk (% of aboveground biomass net energy) of cultivars R570 and R579 was more affected by low temperatures than the cultivar R585, but conversely cultivar R585 was more sensitive to water stress than the other two cultivars. A possible explanation of this observation could be that cultivar R585 is a hybrid from a crossing between two varieties, one of which was native to Hawaii and presented some cold tolerance (personal communication). 
 Harvesting systems have a direct impact on the qualitative characteristics (e.g. fibre and brix concentrations) of the biomass delivered to the mill as each biomass component has variable concentration of fibre as mentioned by  7 ). Notwithstanding, in real conditions (sugar mill process) and based on the equation given by  The harvesting system is one of the most important management factors that can be manipulated to maximize energy (Table  6 ) and electricity (Table  8 ) yields. The potential electricity energy production could be increased by 36% by changing from CC to WGC harvests, and by 51% by changing from CC to overall aboveground biomass. Similar to studies conducted in Brazil,  The choice of the genotype can affect the efficiency of the 'sugar mill-power plant' complex (Fig.  3 ). It appears that the electricity yields for the various valorization routes of cultivar R579 presented differences between environments, which was not the case for the bagasse yield. This suggests that the energy consumption of the milling process was lower for cultivar R579 compared to the other cultivars. A possible explanation is that cultivar R579 was designed to meet the sugar industry's demands in the early 1990s for high sucrose and low fibre concentrations. Thus, increasing fibre concentration of the load entering the mill will logically be associated with more coproducts and energy yield, although decreasing fibre concentration could also reduce energy consumption of the sugar mill and create a trade-off between the energy recovered and the energy needed to process the sugarcane entering the mill. Finally, in addition to management options, proper combinations of agro-climatic conditions and cultivars can act as leverages to improve energy carriers' yields. As an example, the potential electricity energy production and 1G ethanol energy production from molasses can increase by 47-171% and by 27-178%, respectively, from the worst to the best combinations. At this stage, analysing the trade-off between food and energy production regarding genotypes, environments and management options is needed to simultaneously maximize biomass production and optimize the valorization of sugarcane biomass. 
 Overall, the choice of cultivars appears to be the quickest way to improve sustainability of the sugar industry (sucrose production) and to contribute towards increasing the substitution of finite resources (bioenergy production). Indeed, for both harvesting systems, the simple fact to recommend the best combination between cultivars and environments may allow increase by 14-29% of recoverable sucrose, by 33-60% of 1G ethanol from molasses and by 18-85% of potential electricity energy yields. At field processing level, sucrose concentration and energy of the biomass were clearly negatively correlated, exhibiting a correlation coefficient of À0.78. According to a previous study  At sugar mill and bioenergy plant processing level, harvesting system (i.e. switching from CC to WGC) is a major avenue to increase energy outputs (by 13-73% of potential electricity energy and by 19-113% of 1G ethanol energy productions) as mentioned by  Finally, we should be careful not to overshadow the trade-off between sugarcane cropping systems potential benefits and drawbacks that could ensue from trash biomass removal from fields  Sugarcane cropping systems are exclusively optimized for sucrose production  © 2014 John Wiley & Sons Ltd, GCB Bioenergy, 7, 40-56 
			 © 2014 John Wiley & Sons Ltd, GCB Bioenergy, 7, 40-56 O P T I M I Z A T I O N O F S U G A R C A N E A S A M U L T I P U R P O S E C R O P 43
Remote sensing is widely used to estimate the production of biomass of crops and natural vegetation systems in various climatic conditions  Remote sensing data may be related to the vegetation biomass in several ways:  On Reunion Island (Indian Ocean), sugarcane (Saccharum officinarum) is the primary crop in terms of cultivated area (25,000 ha) and agricultural income. To sustain profitability in this sector, the harvesting and processing of sugarcane must be optimally managed, and accurate estimations of the final biomass are required to reach this objective. The logistics of sugarcane mills (opening dates, inputs, distribution of harvesting machines, etc.) and farmers (daily delivery quotas, labor, etc.) depend on such estimations. The sugarcane fields on Reunion Island mainly belong to small growers and are characterized by their small size (approximately 0.9 ha) and highly variable climatic conditions, soil types and farming practices. Several methods are currently used to estimate the sugarcane biomass production across the island based on the farmers' reports, ground sampling, and crop model simulations. Forecast results are consolidated 2 weeks prior to the beginning of the harvest campaign and determine the logistics to be implemented. Each method has advantages and drawbacks. The reporting method by farmers is simple to set up, but it provides subjective values of production. The ground sampling method performed in May and June by field officers on 62 reference fields all over the island is time consuming and can be biased by a poor representativeness of the reference fields. Simulations with the MOSICAS model  Over the last thirty years, numerous studies have presented examples of empirical relationships between vegetation index (VI) values and aboveground total dry biomass. These relationships were developed either with point-in-time VI values (generally measured at the green vegetation peak) and vegetation canopy biomass  The Monteith efficiency model  Crop models are dynamic models that simulate the growth of a crop at regular time steps (generally daily); such models rely on mechanistic and empirical equations that describe the various ecophysiological processes of the plant's growth and compute the development of the crop based on several input variables, such as climatic data and parameters that include crop and soil characteristics and field management practices. However, crop models have limitations that are primarily caused by the simplification of complex natural phenomena. Moreover, the parameter values used in the model may not be representative of the actual values, and the lack of high spatial resolution input variables (such as climatic variables) may limit the accuracy of the model. Coupling methods that consist of data from remote sensing integrated into crop models provide a solution for crop development monitoring and biomass estimation. They combine actual and exhaustive observations with the mathematical conceptualization of the model. Different coupling methods have been reported  Although numerous studies have described how remote sensing data can be used to estimate a crop's ecophysiological variables, including biomass production, to our knowledge, no attempt has been made to directly compare the remote sensing methods on a unique dataset. Therefore, the objective of this work is to compare remote sensing-based methods in the estimation of sugarcane biomass to provide a set of recommendations for a future sugarcane yield monitoring system for the sugarcane industry. We implemented and tested three methods based on the Normalized Difference Vegetation Index that was computed from SPOT-4 and SPOT-5 time series images and compared the methods to a direct estimation method of crop modeling. The ground data set was composed of 63 in-farm fields located in two contrasted sites on the island and spread over three growing seasons  The models were then compared for their accuracy of estimation and simplicity of implementation (number of required satellite images and amount of required additional input information). Because the optimization of harvest logistics depends on the early assessment of biomass production, we also tested methods for yield forecasting for different dates ranging from mid-May to early July, which corresponds to the beginning of the harvest period. The results were then discussed to produce recommendations for the construction of an operational method to estimate the biomass production of sugarcane on Reunion Island and other countries whose sugar industry is based on smallholder farms. 
 
 
 The ground data set was composed of 63 field observations collected over two study sites and three cropping seasons  1 ) with contrasting climatic conditions and agricultural practices. The farm located in the northern part of the island (hereafter referred to as FN) had a mean annual rainfall of 2420 mm. The 38 fields used in this study were located at altitudes between 60 m and 200 m, and all were rainfed. With the exception of three fields cultivated with the R582 cultivar, all of the fields were planted with the R579 sugarcane cultivar because this cultivar was specifically adapted to the climatic conditions of the area. The mean area of the studied fields was 6.2 ha, and their mean yield was 118 t•ha -1 . The farm located in the southern part of the island (hereafter referred to as FS) had a mean annual rainfall of 940 mm. The 25 fields used in this study were located at altitudes between 170 m and 480 m, and 15 fields were located lower than 300 m and irrigated. Five different sugarcane cultivars were used: R570, R577, R579, R582 and R584. The mean area of the studied fields was 13.1 ha, and the mean yield was 94 t•ha -1 . Although the yields observed in these well-managed farms were higher than the 76 t•ha -1 island average, the farms were selected because (i) the farmers were able to provide agronomic data (cultivar, yield and harvest date) for each field and (ii) both farmers used unique agricultural practices for all of their respective fields, which simplified the error analysis of the methods. 
 The climatic and agronomic data were collected over three growing cycles  1 ). The soil characteristics were extracted from the Reunion soil map  The cropping practices data were obtained from the farmers' databases and included observed yield and harvest dates for each studied field and irrigation schedules. The observed yield was computed from the weighing of the harvested stalk fresh biomass of each field for the three study years. 
 A total of 56 SPOT images (14 SPOT-5 images and 42 SPOT-4 images) covering the entire island were acquired for dates between July 2009 and December 2012 through the KALIDEOS program conducted by the Centre National d'Études Spatiales (CNES). The number of available images for each field and for each season ranged between 5 and 20, the median number was 14 images per field and per growing cycle. The NDVI was computed for each available satellite image, and a cloud-free median value of the NDVI was calculated for each studied field (see Figure  2 ). The images had a 10 m spatial resolution, included TOC (Top Of Canopy) reflectance and were orthorectified to ensure cross-comparison in time and space  
 A limited number of the well-known remote sensing-based techniques used to estimate crop biomass have been applied to sugarcane. We tested three of these methods in increasing complexity. 
 The remote sensing methods for yield estimation presented in this paper are based on the NDVI temporal profile of each of the 63 studied sugarcane fields. To compute the NDVI temporal profile, we used an interpolation model based on two continuous logistic functions  (1) 1 ⁄ (2) 1 ⁄ ( 3 ) where t is the thermal age (in degree days) of the crop since the previous harvest, m is the maximum value of the logistic curve, a and b are the slope at the inflexion points of the F 1 and F 2 functions, respectively, and t i and t f are the degree day values at those inflexion points. The parameters were determined using an "nls" non-linear regression  Similar to  
 We computed the cumulated NDVI values by integrals between two successive harvests for each field. A linear regression was then established between the integrated values and observed yield at the latter harvest. 
 The Kumar-Monteith efficiency model  The radiation use efficiency represents the capacity of the plant to convert radiation into dry biomass. We used a radiation use efficiency value of 3.22 g•MJ -1 as estimated by  fAPAR represents the ability of a vegetation cover to intercept and absorb incident radiation and can be derived from satellite data  1.383 0.333 (5) For mature sugarcane, the water content of the stalks is assumed to vary slightly  0.018 3.64 (6) Using the previously established NDVI values (see Equations (  1 )-(  3 )), the yield can be modeled as follows: 0.0279 1.383 0.333 3.64 (7) 
 MOSICAS is a semi-empirical sugarcane crop model  This model relies on a water balance module and growth module (Figure  3 ). The water balance module was adapted by  We used the forced-coupling method to input the fAPAR values derived from the NDVI into the MOSICAS model. Forcing a model consists of replacing the simulated values of a state variable by observed values. The model then considers the actual state of development of crop development of the studied fields. The daily values of the NDVI were derived from the NDVI temporal profiles computed with Equations (  2 )-(  4 ). The fAPAR values were then computed based on Equation  Two MOSICAS methods were tested: simulations without forcing (referred to as the MOSICAS-RAW method) and with complete forcing (referred to as the MOSICAS-FORCED method) of MOSICAS.  
 The sensitivity of the four methods (empirical NDVI-based, Kumar-Monteith, MOSICAS-RAW and MOSICAS-FORCED) to the (i) number of satellite images used in the yield estimation process and (ii) date of the yield forecast (up to two months before the harvest with a 15-day time step) was tested so that recommendations could be provided for an operational yield forecasting method. To do so, we grouped the study fields into classes according to the number of available satellite images per field and performed an analysis of variance on the absolute error of the yield estimation to determine if the number of satellite images had a significant effect. To evaluate the sensitivity of the methods to the forecast date, we used Equation (  7 ) to compute the yield of each field by comparing the previous harvest date and four calendar dates t e set to 15 May, 1 June, 15 June, and 1 July. The integrated values of the NDVI, Kumar-Monteith model and MOSICAS simulated yields were computed at date t e and regressed against the final yields. The four yield forecasts and yield observations at harvest were evaluated and compared using RMSE values. The earlier yield forecasts induced a decreasing number of available satellite images. A linear regression was used instead of the logistic function described in Section 3.2.1 whenever there were fewer than four images to describe the NDVI dynamics of the field. 
 
 The evolution of the NDVI as a function of the thermal time and for different periods is illustrated in Figure  4 . The adjustments showed positive results, with the RMSE ranging from 0.0006 and 0.065 and mean value at 0.025.  
 We compared the yield estimation accuracy of each method, and linear regression was established between the outputs of the models and observed yield at the field scale (Figure  5 ). Computations were made using the NDVI values observed for the entire growing cycle. The best results were obtained with the integrated NDVI empirical model, which had a root mean square error of 10.4 t•ha -1 , which was followed by the Kumar-Monteith model and the MOSICAS-FORCED method (RMSE of 11.9 t•ha -1 and 12.6 t•ha -1 , respectively). The MOSICAS-RAW simulations were the least accurate (RMSE of 15.3 t•ha -1 ). An analysis of variance of the absolute estimation errors showed that the year did not have a significant effect on the linear regressions (p > 0.14). However, the location of the study sites (north and south regions) did have an effect on the linear regressions based on the MOSICAS-RAW and MOSICAS-FORCED methods (p = 0.04 and 0.002, respectively). Finally, the MOSICAS-RAW method tended to overestimate the observed yield, whereas the MOSICAS-FORCED method tended to underestimate the yield, which is shown on Figure  5 . 
 We tested the influence of the number of satellite images in the methods on the estimated yield accuracy. We first compared the results of the MOSICAS-RAW simulations with those of the MOSICAS-FORCED simulations to determine if the use of remote sensing data improved the yield estimation. The analysis of variance performed on the absolute estimation errors showed that forcing the model with remote sensing data significantly increased the accuracy (p < 0.0001). The influence of the number of satellite images was then tested for all of the methods. Because we had a different number of available satellite images for each field, we aggregated the fields into three classes (Figure  6 ). The analysis of variance showed that the number of available satellite images did not have a significant effect on the accuracy of the estimation of the yield (p-value = 0.59, 0.63 and 0.18 for MOSICAS-FORCED, integrated-NDVI based and Kumar-Monteith methods, respectively). 
 As previously stated, early yield forecasts are vitally important for the sugarcane industry. To evaluate the effect of the forecast date on the yield accuracy, we compared the actual yield measured at harvest with the simulated yield obtained from each method at five different dates (Figure  7 ): four forecast dates from mid-May to early July (at the beginning of the harvest) with a two-week time step and the actual harvest date of the field. For the earliest yield forecasts (mid-May), the RMSE ranged between 13.1 and 14.8 t•ha -1 . The best results were obtained with the empirical NDVI and MOSICAS-FORCED models. There was little variation in the accuracy of the forecasted yield for simulation dates between mid-May and early July. The mean RMSE values were 13.0, 14.2, 14.9 and 13.4 t•ha -1 for the empirical NDVI, Kumar-Monteith, MOSICAS-RAW and MOSICAS-FORCED methods, respectively. According to the RMSE, the loss of accuracy between the early yield forecasts and harvest date yield estimations was higher for the integrated NDVI and Kumar-Monteith models than for the MOSICAS methods, and there was almost no influence from the forecast date on the accuracy of the MOSICAS-RAW method. 
 
 We tested the ability of three remote sensing-based methods to estimate the yield of sugarcane at the field scale under a wide range of climatic conditions and cropping practices. The accuracy of methods in estimating and providing early forecasts of sugarcane yield were evaluated for two contrasting regions of Reunion Island. The results showed that the integrated NDVI empirical model provided the best yield estimation with an RMSE of 10.4 t•ha -1 , whereas the conventionally used MOSICAS-RAW method estimated the yield with an RMSE of 15.3 t•ha -1 . An analysis of variance showed that the cropping year (3 years in the data set) had no effect on the linear regressions between the simulated and observed yields. Our dataset did not include the exceptional climatic years (i.e., cyclonic years our drought years); therefore, the results should be confirmed by comparing yield estimations for two climatically contrasted cropping years, or on a longer period. Yet inter-annual climatic variability on yield estimation accuracy has not been directly tested, the highly contrasted climatic conditions from one field to another tend to show that the model is robust. We showed that the linear regression was significantly different for MOSICAS-RAW and MOSICAS-FORCED simulations depending on the study site. Certain fields located in the southern study site were irrigated, and because we used approximations of the actual volume of irrigated water, we may have introduced errors to the computations that could have resulted in a significant difference between the northern rainfed fields and southern irrigated fields. The comparison of the methods showed that the increased complexity of the processes simulated by the model did not result in an increase of yield estimation accuracy (see Table  1 ). The use of global radiation with the Kumar-Monteith model reduced the quality of the estimation compared to the integrated NDVI method, and integrating the water input data with the MOSICAS models resulted in a reduced accuracy of the results compared to the Kumar-Monteith's method. In both cases, the uncertainty linked to the measurements may explain this reduction of accuracy, as there is a high spatial heterogeneity of climatic conditions. The analysis of variance showed that forcing the model with remote sensing data resulted in a significantly increased accuracy of yield estimation, and it also showed that the number of satellite images used in the model had no influence on this accuracy. This result might be explained by the fact that the minimum number of satellite images of our studied fields was high, with at least 5 available images, which was sufficient to describe the dynamics of NDVI during crop growth. We previously found that early forecasts of the yield, which are usually at one and a half months before the beginning of the harvest campaign, are required at the field level; however, the four methods performed poorly and had accuracies ranging between 13.0 and 13.4 t•ha -1 . There was a significant increase in accuracy, however, for the empirical NDVI model, Kumar-Monteith model and MOSICAS-FORCED method when the simulations were run until the date of harvest. Remote sensing data provide representative information on the vegetative development of the field, and using this information over the complete growth cycle incorporates any phenomena that might affect the crop's growth. However, stresses that affect the crop after the last satellite image has been acquired are not integrated in the computations. Consequently, earlier estimations of the yield include more unquantifiable errors. 
 Models that estimate yield must be able to perform an accurate forecast of biomass production at the field scale, and models should also be easy to set up and contain all required input data. The empirical NDVI model appears to be the easiest to set up, and it requires the least amount of input data for processing (see Table  1 ). Considering the results presented in this paper, the most suitable method for sugarcane yield estimation at the field scale appears to be the empirical NDVI model because it is the simplest model to set up and provides the most accurate yield estimation over a complete cycle of the crop. For early forecasts (before the harvest period), its accuracy is lower, which was expected, but it is still equivalent to the accuracy of crop growth models run without remote sensing data. This method requires five different inputs as stated in Table  1 . As previously stated, a minimum of 5 satellites images per field should be used to estimate the yield of sugarcane fields. A number of radiometric corrections must be applied before image processing, and to be comparable, those images must be converted for the top of canopy reflectance or at least be intercalibrated, such as in  In addition, harvest dates are required to compute the thermal age of the fields; these dates cannot be systematically acquired at the field scale because of the number of smallholders with various harvest dates, but must be available before the beginning of the simulations. Several methods based on remote sensing are available to acquire harvest dates: El Hajj et al  
 We compared three methods of estimation of the sugarcane yield based on remote sensing: (1) an empirical relationship with a growing season-integrated Normalized Difference Vegetation Index NDVI, (2) the Kumar-Monteith efficiency model, and (3) a forced-coupling method with the sugarcane model MOSICAS and satellite-derived fAPAR. Our results showed that the method based on the empirical relationship gave the most accurate estimation of crop yields. All methods show a loss of accuracy for early predictions. It has also been shown that a minimum of 5 satellite images has to be acquired in order to correctly describe the dynamic of the NDVI, and that a more important number of images will not result in a significant enhancement of the accuracy of the crop yield estimation. Finally, considering that the integrated NDVI method (i) was the most accurate to estimate the crop yield and (ii) that it is the easiest method to set up, we recommend its use for the estimation of the yield of sugarcane fields. The method based on the empirical NDVI model should be implemented and tested at the island scale. Additional ground data are required for further method evaluation in environmental and cropping conditions that were not tested in this study. This approach should take advantage of the upcoming open access Sentinel-2 Earth observation system that will provide 10-m resolution satellite images on a 10-day (then 5-day) frequency.
Sugarcane is an important crop worldwide, as a sweetener, source of dietary calories, and feedstock for bioenergy production. In 2017 about 1.84 billion tons of cane were produced from 25 million ha in more than 100 countries in the tropical and subtropical regions of the world  Many of these industries invest substantially in breeding cultivars well-adapted to local environmental conditions and field management. Crop models have potential to assist sugarcane breeding by identifying desirable traits for target environments. Models can be used to dissect high-level complex traits (such as yield at harvest) to isolate and characterise E and G control over lower level traits (such as photosynthetic efficiency or leaf expansion rate). Crop models suitable for such applications are required to be strongly process-based, where complex trait values emerge as a consequence of process-level interactions with G (represented by G-specific model parameters) and E control (represented by climatic input variables, simulated soil water and nutrient balances and management related inputs)  Crop models represent quantitative syntheses of objective knowledge of crop physiological processes  Several process-based sugarcane models have been developed. These include  Sugarcane yield sensitivity to Apsim model cultivar parameters has been assessed by  Operational application of crop models to assist sugarcane breeding activities around the world requires careful evaluation of existing sugarcane models. Testing and comparing process-level algorithm concepts against an appropriate multiple-G, multiple-E trial will reveal strengths and weaknesses of different modelling approaches, as well as reveal knowledge gaps that limit the effectiveness of sugarcane models in breeding applications. The overall aim of this study was to characterise crop development and growth observed in an international multi-environment cultivar trial, to gain a better understanding of genotypic and environmental controls of sugarcane crop performance under non-limiting water and nutrient conditions. Avoiding confounding effects of water and nutrient stresses allows a first-step 'potential production' level analysis, and could better reveal subtle genetic effects on crop development and growth. The specific objectives of this paper were to: 1 Characterise the growth environments in terms of We present an overview of process-level simulation concepts from four mature sugarcane models. The methods section then describes the experiments conducted, how the experimental growth environments were characterised, and how each G-E combination was phenotypically characterised in terms of key simulation concepts. Results are then shown, and discussions and conclusions presented. A table of acronyms is shown below (Table  2 ) to guide the reader. 
 An overview of key processes simulated by the four sugarcane crop models (Canegro, Canesim, Apsim and Mosicas), and how they might be tested against experimental data, is presented in this section. Two versions of the Canegro model are considered: v4.5  
 During germination, underground buds sprout shoots that elongate to emerge above the soil surface. The date of shoot emergence (DAP_EM, d) is defined in the Canegro1, Canesim, Mosicas and Apsim models as the date when 50% of primary shoots have emerged (DAP_EM50, d). The Canegro2 model considers shoot emergence as the date when the first shoot emerges (DAP_EM1, d). All models use air temperature within specific ranges (effective temperature) as the sole E driver of germination rate (and rates of several other plant processes). This is captured in the crop models with the concept of thermal time (TT, °Cd), making use of a base temperature (T B , °C), and in the Canegro2, Canesim, Mosicas and Apsim models, optimal (T O ) and upper limit (T U ) cardinal temperatures  Canegro, Canesim and Mosicas predict DAP_EM using TT elapsed since crop start (TT_EM50, °Cd). Apsim simulates a TT delay for bud sprouting, followed by TT-driven shoot elongation from the bud to the soil surface, accounting for the effect of planting depth. All three models differentiate between plant (P) and ratoon (R1) crops for calculating DAP_EM. TT_EM50 is G-specific in Canegro, Canesim and Mosicas. As all models effectively simulate germination as a function of TT, it is appropriate to evaluate the concept in these terms. 
 Green leaf area index (GLAI, m 2 /m 2 ) determines the fraction of incident solar radiation intercepted for photosynthesis, and affects rates of transpiration and soil evaporation. All models use the concept of fractional interception (Fi, %) of radiation. Fi of photosynthetically-active solar radiation (PAR, MJ/m 2 /d) is FiPAR (%), and of global radiation (SRAD, MJ/m 2 /d), FiSRAD (%). The Canegro, Apsim and Mosicas models estimate Fi from GLAI, using a radiation extinction coefficient using Beer's Law. The Canesim model simulates FiPAR directly as a function of TT since TT_EM50, with a single G-specific parameter, TT_Fi50 (thermal time from emergence to 50% FiPAR). The Mosicas model calculates the daily change in unstressed GLAI using a Gompertz derivative equation of TT accumulation since emergence. Apsim and Canegro calculate GLAI per shoot, where: leaf number (G-specific) is determined by TT via phyllocron intervals (PI, °Cd); area per leaf is determined by leaf number (G-specific), and TT; total green leaf area per shoot is multiplied by shoot population (POPN, shoots/m 2 ). Leaf area growth in the Apsim model is driven by temperature and limited by water stress in a conceptually similar manner to Canegro, but also requires that sufficient carbohydrate is supplied to the leaves (via biomass accumulation (photosynthesis) and partitioning processes) to support the daily increase in leaf area. Demand for leaf biomass is based on the daily leaf area increase and specific leaf area, which is permitted to vary within bounds. Insufficient biomass results in limits on leaf area expansion. It should be noted that the size of green leaf canopy is not determined by carbohydrate supply (source strength) in Canegro, Canesim and Mosicas. Both Canegro and Apsim effectively simulate TT-driven POPN development, with G-specific control parameters. Canegro2 differentiates between primary and secondary shoots and adjusts tillering rates in response to light competition. All models are sensitive to water status: Canesim transiently reduces Fi; Mosicas reduces the daily leaf expansion; Canegro and Apsim reduce leaf elongation rates and accelerate leaf senescence rates; and Canegro reduces tillering rates and accelerates shoot senescence rates. All models make provision for G-specific control over canopy development rates, and the key E determinants of canopy development rate are TT and water stress. For the purposes of evaluating model concepts under unstressed Es, it is adequate to frame, as G-controlled functions of TT since DAP_EM50: (1) canopy development in terms of FiPAR development rate; and (2) its components, shoot and leaf development, as shoot (tiller) appearance rate and PI respectively. 
 Canegro, Canesim, Mosicas and Apsim all simulate biomass accumulation (ΔDM, t/ha/d) using a radiation-use efficiency (RUE) approach  Canegro, Canesim and Mosicas express RUEo in terms of PAR (assumed in this paper to be 50% of SRAD), while Apsim uses SRAD. Respiration is explicitly simulated by Canegro, Canesim and Mosicas, and not by Apsim. Canegro and Canesim assume the same RUEo for P and R1 crops, while Mosicas and Apsim allow different parameter values for plant and ratoon crops. RUEo is G-specific in Canegro, Canesim and Mosicas, and is considered fixed in Apsim. Fig.  1  shows the RUE relationship with temperature for well-watered crops as used in the different models, using their default input parameter values. The values are expressed according to a common RUEo definition, for meaningful comparison; the Apsim definition (expressed in g ADM per MJ SRAD) is used as it is the only definition that can express parameter values equivalently for all models. Calculating a value for RUEo from observed data is practically difficult, due to the necessity to create RUE-maximising environmental conditions for a sustained period. Analysis of high values of RUE (based on observed ADM and intercepted PAR measurements) for unstressed, healthy crops (RUEmax, g/MJ) could inform understanding of G control over RUEo. 
 Canegro, Canesim and Apsim consider onset of stalk growth (OSG) as a phenological event determined solely by TT accumulation after DAP_EM50 (TT_OSG, °Cd; Singels, 2013), while Mosicas uses an ADM Fig.  1 . Well-watered radiation use efficiency (RUE, g of dry aboveground biomass per MJ of intercepted shortwave solar radiation (SRAD)), for four models, under reference conditions (total biomass =41 t/ha; stalk dry mass = 18 t/ha; age = 9 months; SRAD =25 MJ/m 2 ; unstressed water status) with default model parameter values. RUEo (representing the maximum theoretical RUE values (g/MJ)) are reflected where RUE values are highest. threshold (ADM_OSG, t/ha). As ADM accumulation (ΔADM) is reduced by water stress, Mosicas effectively considers source strength (and water stress) in simulating OSG. These two approaches need to be evaluated separately against observed TT and ADM respectively. Canegro and Mosicas partition ΔDM between roots (ΔRDM, t/ha/d) and above-ground (ΔADM, t/ha/d) parts as functions of total biomass and crop class. In Apsim, ΔRDM is calculated from ΔADM via growth stage-based multiplier parameters. Canegro calculates a temperature-sensitive (≈10-17 °C range) STKPF from a reference G-specific parameter  
 This section describes the methodology followed to achieve the stated objectives. A set of experiments is described, followed by a description of analyses conducted to characterise the growth environments in each experiment. We then describe how each G-E combination was phenotyped in terms of process-level model concepts identified in Section 3. Finally, we explain how we assessed the variation in these phenotypic parameters in order to assess E, G and GxE interaction effects. This allowed us to infer the extent to which G control is exerted at a process level, as well as identify significant remaining E variation that pointed to model concept deficiencies. 
 Eight experiments (Es; 'E' is used interchangeably to refer to experiments and environments in this paper) were conducted, consisting of plant and first ratoon crops at sites in four countries (Table  1 ). The intention was to have the same set of cultivars (genotypes, Gs) grown at all sites, with no water or nutrient limitations. In practice, three Gs were common to all sites (N41, R570 and CP88-1762) and additional Gs (HoCP96-540, Q183, ZN7 and NCo376) were included at some sites, and water stress could not be avoided in some cases. At all sites, expect in Chiredzi, Zimbabwe, two adjacent blocks, A and B, were established at each site. Plant crops were established on both blocks simultaneously, but only the plots in block A were sampled during the first season of growth (recording data for the plant crop). Block B was cut back on the day of the final harvest of block A, and was sampled during the second season of growth (recording data for the first ratoon crop). At Chiredzi, the ratoon crop was started on a different field with a different soil, six months after the harvest date of the plant crop. Each experiment was designed as a randomised complete block with five plots per treatment; each plot consisted of 9 rows of 11 m long, spaced at 1.5 m. Non-destructive measurements of top visible dewlap height (TVDH, cm) and leaf number (tagged shoots), and shoot population (2 m row-length), were conducted every one to four weeks, with more frequent sampling during the partial canopy and tillering phases. Destructive samples (of 18 m 2 ) were taken on four occasions -3, 6, 9 and 12 months' age. Leaf area, shoot and leaf counts, and fresh and dry biomass fractions were determined based on 3 m 2 sub-samples. Dry mass values for biomass components (e.g. ADM and SDM) were determined by multiplying the respective dry mass fractions (calculated using the 3 m 2 sub-samples) by the 18 m 2 above-ground fresh mass samples. Radiation interception by the canopy was measured non-destructively, using handheld line quantum sensors, on several occasions throughout each crop. Departures from this basic protocol are highlighted in the results. Some other limitations were noted for certain crop and genotype combinations. These are noted in the results.  
 The water stress index (WSI) was calculated as the cumulative sum of daily photosynthesis water stress (SWDF2) values simulated by the Canegro2 model, using standard cultivar coefficients. 
 The photo-thermal quotient (PTQ,  Daily cumulative PTQ (PTQc, MJ/m 2 /°Cd) is reported for the environmental characterisation, and was calculated as: ∑ = = PTQ PTQ min(6, ) c d D d 1 (2) = PTQ SRAD TT10 d (3) Daily PTQ (PTQ d , MJ/m 2 /°Cd) was limited to 6 MJ/m 2 /°Cd, based on analysis of the PTQd values (mean = 2.15, median = 1.38 MJ/m 2 / °Cd; excluded outliers amounted to < 1% of the dataset). This was to avoid PTQ d reaching enormous values on days where the air temperature is near or below the base temperature of 10 °C. PTQ c values were used visually (only). 
 Descriptive phenotypic parameters were calculated either directly or derived from observed data. The derived parameters are based on concepts from the different models, and the focus was on parameters understood to be of particular importance to these models. 
 Methods for calculating values for TT_EM50, PI, tiller appearance rate per unit thermal time (TAR, shoots/m 2 /°Cd), peak shoot population (PPEAK, shoots/m 2 ), final shoot population (PFINAL, shoots/m 2 ), TT_Fi50, seasonal intercepted PAR (IntPAR, MJ/m 2 ) and seasonal average FiPAR (FiPARavg, %) are described in this section. • TT_EM50 was calculated as the cumulative TT10 value on the date of DAP_EM50 (preliminary analysis showed little difference between TT measures calculated with different cardinal temperatures). DAP_EM50 is required to estimate TT_EM50, and had been observed for the Reunion P and Belle Glade P and R1 crops. In other cases, DAP_EM50 was inferred from POPN observations (methodology explained in Section 1.3 of the Supplementary Online Material). • PI was calculated as the inverse of leaf appearance rate per unit thermal time (LAR0, leaves/shoot/°Cd). LAR0 was calculated as the slope of the linear regression of total leaf number per shoot (TLFN) against TT10, for TT10 values less than 3100 °C d. • TAR was calculated as the slope of the linear regression of POPN against TT16, from DAP_EM50 to date of PPEAK. • PFINAL was estimated from the last three POPN observations. • PPEAK was taken as the maximum observed (treatment mean) POPN value. • TT_Fi50 was used to characterize canopy development. Values were estimated by optimising the Canesim FiPAR model (see Supplementary Online Material) parameters to achieve a good fit to FiPAR observations. A genetic algorithm ("Genoud",  • IntPAR was calculated as the dot-product of fitted daily FiPAR (from • FiPARavg was calculated as the ratio of IntPAR to total seasonal incident PAR, expressed as a percentage. 
 ADM, SDM and IntPAR data were used to estimate parameters for biomass accumulation (RUEmax, defined as the maximum RUE observed in all biomass sampling periods) and partitioning (ADM_OSG, TT_OSG and STKPF). • RUEmax was calculated as highest of RUE calculated per biomass sampling period p (RUE p , g/MJ) = RUE ΔADM *100 ΔIntPAR p p p (5) where ΔADM p (t/ha) and ΔIntPAR p (MJ/m 2 ) are the changes in ADM and IntPAR between consecutive sampling dates. • ADM_OSG was determined by linearly regressing SDM (> 0 t/ha) Fig.  2 . Time series plots of cumulative solar radiation (SRAD, MJ/m 2 ), measures of thermal time accumulation (TT16 and TT10), cumulative water stress index (WSI) and cumulative photo-thermal quotient (PTQc, divided by 10), for each Experiment. against ADM and then finding the x-intercept. TT_OSG was taken as the TT10 age since DAP_EM50 at which ADM = ADM_OSG. For Chiredzi R1 only, TT_OSG was additionally estimated using TVDH (top visible dewlap height, a measure of plant height, cm) data, as the ADM_OSG values appeared too high for this E. TVDH was regressed against TT16, and the corresponding TT10 value (since DAP_EM50) when TVDH was last projected to be zero was taken as TT_OSG. • STKPF was calculated as the slope of linear regression of SDM and ADM. 
 ANOVA was conducted on ADM and SDM final values using the R 'aov' function for analysis of variance  For each phenotypic parameter, the mean and standard deviation of E values for each G were calculated: E variation was quantified as the standard deviation of E means (averaged over Gs), divided by the overall (averaged over Es) mean value, expressed as a percentage (Ecv, Eq. (  6 )). An Ecv value exceeding 25% was taken as an indication of strong E impact. = … … Ecv stddev MV MV MV mean MV MV MV ( , , , ) ( , , , ) *100 E E E n E E E n 1 2 1 2 (6) = MV mean Value Value Value ( , , ) Ey Ey G Ey G Ey G , 1 , 2 , 3 (7) where MV Ey is the mean phenotypic parameter value (Value E,G ) for the three common Gs (G1, G2, G3) for environment y (Ey). Similarly, the mean and standard deviation of G values for each E were calculated: G variation was quantified as the standard deviation of G means (averaged over Es), divided by the overall (averaged over Gs) mean value, expressed as a percentage (Gcv, Eq. (  8 )). In addition the variation in G rankings was quantified as the standard deviation of average G rankings across Es, divided by the mean G ranking, expressed as a percentage (GRcv, Eq. (  10 )). G impacts were considered strong when Gcv exceeded 8% and GRcv exceeded 25%.  , ,  ) = Gcv stddev MV MV MV mean MV MV MV ( , , ) ( , , ) *100 G G G G G G 1 2 3 1 2 3 (8) = … MV mean Value Value Value ( , Gx E Gx E Gx En Gx 1, 2, , (9) = GRcv stddev MR MR MR mean MR MR MR ( , , ) ( , , ) *100 G G G G G G 1 2 3 1 2 3 (10) where MV Gx is the mean parameter value for genotype x (Gx) for environments 1 to n (E1…En), and MR Gx is the mean of rankings of Gx in each environment. Table  A -3 (Supplementary Online Material) summarises key E parameters over three growth phasesgermination, tillering and stalk growth, where the phases are determined by the Canegro1 model's standard parameter values for TT_EM50 and TT_OSG. 
 
 The warmest site was La Mare (seasonal cumulative TT10 ≈ 5400 °C d), while the coolest was Pongola (≈ 4500 °C d). La Mare P and R1 and Chiredzi P experienced warm conditions at the crop start, with cooler conditions later on; the other crops were started at a cooler time of year (Fig.  2 ). La Mare had the smallest temperature variation of all sites (all days averaged 16-30 °C, TMIN > 16 °C and TMAX < 35 °C). Chiredzi experienced the strongest weather variationthere were on average 50 days where TMIN < 10 °C and 64 days per year where TMAX > 35 °C. Despite being the coolest overall, Pongola still had significant numbers of hot (TMAX > 30 °C) and very hot (TMAX > 35 °C) days. Chiredzi had the highest seasonal SRAD, with the P and R1 crops receiving 8477 and 7400 MJ/m 2 respectively. La Mare ranked second (7320 and 6914 MJ/m 2 ), Belle Glade third (6573 and 6456 MJ/m 2 ), and Pongola last (6132 and 5770 MJ/m 2 ). The data in Fig.  2  show that SRAD and TT accumulation had a similar relationship throughout the season at La Mare P and R1, and Pongola R1. Pongola P, Belle Glade P and R1 and Chiredzi R1 PTQc data suggest a high radiation to temperature ratio during the tillering phase for these Es (Table  A -3), while the converse is true for the germination and tillering stages of Chiredzi P. Pongola R1 experienced water stress through most of the growing period (seasonal average WSI = 0.3) due to irrigation water use restrictions, while La Mare P and Chiredzi P were water stressed for most of the stalk growth phase with seasonal average WSI of 0.42 and 0.19 respectively (Fig.  2  and Table A-3 ). These three Es were therefore considered water stressed. Other Es experienced relatively little water stress (WSI ≤ 0.1) through most of the growing period (Fig.  2  and Table  A-3 ) and were considered well-watered. Biotic limitations were noted for some of the Es. Lodging was recorded at Pongola P, Belle Glade P, and Chiredzi P. The Belle Glade P crop experienced a frost event 38 days after planting, which affected only Q183. Brown and Tawny rust, Sesamia stalk borer, rats and rabbits affected cultivar HoCP96-540 at Belle Glade and Pongola. We believe these had little impact on outcomes, as we focussed mainly on the common Gs (generally ruling-out issues with Q183 and HoCP96-540) and unstressed experiments (so excluding Chiredzi P). Lodging recorded at Belle Glade P and Pongola P (along with drying-off at this site) may have led to reduced final ADM and SDM, but we believe this had little impact on the process-level analysis as the focus was seldom on final values. 
 Observed phenotypic parameters (PPEAK, PFINAL, ADM and SDM at harvest), and derived phenotypic parameters based on modelling concepts, were calculated from the experimental data. These were then analysed for variation G and E, as well as GxE interactions via consistency of G rankings across Es. The derived parameters allowed us to assess the extent to which model concepts explained the observations. In principle: • strong variation with E indicates model concept shortcomings re- lating to simulating E effects. • strong variation with G, and consistent G rankings -according to the significance criteria described in Section 4.3.3 -indicate G control over the related plant process(es) (and a need for G-specific parameters in models); • strong variation with G and/or E, but with inconsistent G rankings, indicates unresolved GxE interaction effects. Variation in parameter values across E and G for common Gs (N41, R570 and CP88-1762) is summarised in Table  3 . Actual parameter values and correlation between parameters are provided in the Supplementary Online Material. Results are presented for parameters relating to canopy development, then biomass accumulation and partitioning. 
 For P crops, mean TT_EM50 was similar to the default value for Canegro1 (428 °C d), ≈50% lower than the Apsim default, and considerably greater than the Mosicas default parameter value, in equivalent TT terms. For ratoon crops, average TT_EM50 was greater than the equivalent default parameter values for Canegro1, Apsim and Mosicas. TT_EM50 values were lowest for Pongola and highest for Chiredzi. Strong G variation combined with consistent G rankings (high GRcv) suggest significant G effects, with minimal GxE interaction effects, for P crops. For R1 crops, E variation in TT_EM50 was slightly greater than that of P crops and exceeded the 25% threshold, indicating strong E effects, and hence an insufficient explanation of shoot emergence with thermal time. G variation was considerably higher than that of P crops, and rankings indicate that R570 consistently requires more TT for germination than other Gs. R570 required 619 °C d for germination at Belle Glade R1, compared with ≈150 °Cd for other Gs in this E. R570 also required nearly 50% more TT for germination for Chiredzi R1 compared to N41 and CP88-1762, and about 30% more for Belle Glade P E and G variation in PPEAK and PFINAL were considerable, but there was little GxE interaction as rankings were mostly consistent across the Es. Water stress affected the E averages, but had little effect on G rankings. PPEAK was consistently greater for unstressed than stressed crops. TAR appears to be affected by both E and G factors. For the three common Gs, there was considerable variation in E (0.007-0.047 shoots/ m 2 /°Cd) and the cv was second-highest of all parameters (52%). G rankings were relatively inconsistent (GRcv = 20%), suggesting the possible existence of GxE interaction effects. We note however that N41 had the highest TAR in six of eight Es, and CP88-1762 had the lowest in five Es. E and G variation in PI was low, suggesting that E does not affect PI. Gcv for PI exceed our threshold for strong G effects, and the GRcv% value indicates that the G rankings are consistent for the three common Gs under unstressed conditions. R570 had the greatest PI in all five unstressed Es, while rankings (and average leaf PI values) were nearly identical for N41 and CP88-1762. Relatively low E variation in TT_Fi50 suggests that canopy development is predominantly TT-driven. Further investigations (results not shown) also suggest that TT_Fi50 is more accurately modelled using TT16 than TT9, as E variation was lower with TT16. TT_Fi50 was smallest for CP88-1762 in five (out of seven) Es, and greatest for N41 in five Es. It should be noted that the underlying FIPAR observations used for these analyses were not always ideal in terms of quantity and quality, thereby reducing the confidence of these findings. 
 ADM at final harvest (Fig.  3 ,   4 . Average unstressed maximum RUE values are similar to the RUEmax parameters for the Apsim (equivalent to 3.3-3.6 g/MJ PAR) and Canegro1 and Canegro2 models (2.9-3.4 g/MJ). RUEo values were consistent across Es (except for Chiredzi P, attributed to errors in estimating FiPAR for this experiment) with low E variation (Table  3 ). The Es which best matched the predefined experimental conditions (fully irrigated ratoon crops with sufficient FiPAR data for the same set of five Gs) were the La Mare R1 and Belle Glade R1. For these Es the Gspecific RUEo values were highly consistent and the G rankings were identical (Table  4 ). The average value for ADM_OSG in this study was 5.3 t/ha and E variation was extremely high, for unstressed and stressed Es. G variation was strong and G rankings not consistent, indicating considerable GxE interaction. There were no clear crop class differences. E variation in TT_OSG was half that of ADM_OSG, but still high (Table  3 ). G variation was very low, although CP88-1762 had a consistently lower TT_OSG than N41 and R570 (and rankings were fairly consistent, GRcv = 30%, indicating minimal GxE interaction effects). Average TT_OSG for the common Gs was 1029 °C d overall, 911 °C d for non-stressed Es and 1226 °C d for stressed Es. E and G variation in STKPF (Table  3 ) were below our threshold values, indicating insufficient evidence of strong E and G effects for non-stressed Es and common Gs. It should be noted that the La Mare R1 crop values were unusually low compared to the other non-stressed Es, indicating possible sampling error. With this E omitted, STKPF values had even lower E variation. CP88-1762 ranked lowest in STKPF (of the three common Gs) in three unstressed Es, but ranked highest in one unstressed E. E and particularly G variation were considerably higher with stressed Es, and CP88-1762 had the highest STKPF of the common Gs for all three stressed Es. ** La Mare R1 excluded. 
 Key findings are stated as bullet points, with the supporting discussion following. 
 5.1.1. Germination is strongly E-and G-controlled with little GxE interaction; for P crops, strong E variation in TT_EM50 indicates that E drivers in addition to TT influence time to primary shoot emergence, warranting further investigation Correct prediction of TT_EM50 is important: for P crops, it is correlated (p < 0.005) with ADM and SDM (Table  A -5, Supplementary Online Material); and several other derived parameters are defined in TT terms after emergence, potentially affecting their estimation accuracy. Germination is presumably driven by soil temperature rather than air temperature, although all models considered use air temperature (probably for pragmatic reasons, that air temperature is available as an input, and soil temperature is not) to drive this process. Seasonal trends in soil temperatures tend to lag behind those in air temperatures. P crops are more likely to be affected by soil temperature dynamics because the buds are more deeply buried than with ratoon crops. The La Mare and Pongola P crops were started in late summer / early autumn, when soils might be expected to be warmer than the air, thus requiring less thermal time (in air temperature terms) for germination; this is reflected in the data with smaller TT_EM50 requirements. The Belle Glade and Chiredzi P crops were started in winter/spring, where soil temperatures would have been cooler than air temperatures and hence would be expected to require additional TT (based on air temperature) to achieve germination; this is borne out in the data, as these crops had higher TT_EM50 requirements. This pattern is less clear with ratoon crops. Soil temperature can be estimated from air temperature, incident radiation, canopy cover and soil albedo, and it is recommended that this approach be explored for improving the simulation of germination. Another possibility is that seedcane quality affected germination rates at the different sites.     A -6, Supplementary Online Material). An explanation for this could be that this cultivar has a higher base temperature requirement for germination. Belle Glade (P and R1) and Chiredzi P experienced much lower average (16-18 °C) and minimum (TMIN ≈ 9-13 °C) temperatures during the germination period compared to the other sites (average daily temperature ≈ 22-28 °C, TMIN ≈ 16-24 °C), and had substantially greater TT_EM50 values for R570 than Gs in these experiments. This is consistent with the findings of Poser et al. (  2019 ), who reported a significantly higher germination T B (13.3 °C) for R570 than two other cultivars tested. Similarly,  
 There is significant G and E control over tillering/shoot population traits, and thermal time alone is not sufficient to predict shoot population under unstressed conditions The TAR value of 0.027 shoots/m 2 /°Cd is considerably greater than the 0.0074 shoots/m 2 /°Cd reported by  TAR appears to be affected by both E and G factors. For the three common Gs, there was considerable variation in E (Table  3 ). We note however that N41 had the highest TAR in six of eight Es, and CP88-1762 had the lowest in five Es. On balance, we interpret this as indicating a need for G-specific tillering parameters in models. Unstressed tiller development has historically been considered to be driven solely by TT accumulation  TAR decreased with increasing mean daily SRAD over the tillering period, although this relationship for non-stressed crops was not significant (p = 0.08) (Fig.  5 ). This concept should be explored further for possible inclusion in sugarcane crop models to improve simulation of POPN. 
 PI values determined in the study are comparable to values reported by  
 G variation in TT_Fi50 for the common Gs is considered strong, and the rankings were sufficiently consistent (relatively high GRcv) to indicate G control over this trait. 5.2. Biomass accumulation and partitioning 5.2.1. Crop growth response differences to environmental factors is genotype-specific Differences in average ADM between Es were significant (Table  A -4) and could be linked to climatic parameters. For example, La Mare R1 (highest ADM of the unstressed Es, 65.3 t/ha for the common Gs) had 38% greater TT10 and 20% greater SRAD than Pongola P (lowest ADM of unstressed Es for common Gs, 37.3 t/ha). Canopy development therefore occurred more rapidly and intercepted more incoming radiation for La Mare R1 than Pongola P (Table  3 ). La Mare R1 also had a higher average RUEmax than Pongola P (Table A-10), probably due to a more favourable temperature regime (24.8 compared to 21.7 °C, Table  A-3)  GxE interaction in ADM was significant (Table  A -4) and G rankings changed with E. For example N41 yielded higher than CP88-1762 in La Mare R1, but yielded lower in Belle Glade R1 (Table  A -9, Supplementary Online Material). This coincided with a slightly higher and lower FIPARavg for N41 in La Mare R1 and Belle Glade R1 respectively (Table  A-10 ). N41 also showed a much lower RUEmax than CP88-1762 in Belle Glade R1 (Table  A   A-3 ). CP88-1762 may be better adapted to the larger temperature range than N41. G variance in SDM was statistically significant (Table  A -4). CP88-1762 yielded highest for unstressed Es and common Gs) and N41 lowest. This coincided with a higher RUEmax (Table A-10), a quicker canopy (TT_Fi50, Table A-5) and earlier OSG (TT_OSG, Table A-5). 
 RUEmax showed moderate G variation for common Gs at unstressed Es, and very consistent G rankings over Es. The identical rankings of RUEmax for five Gs at Belle Glade and La Mare are remarkable, considering that these sites are 15 000 km apart, with completely different soils, start dates, irrigation methods, biotic stresses and numerous other differences. The similarity is striking and strongly suggests that RUEo is G-specific and stable across Es.  Results indicate that TT accumulation (under non-limiting water conditions) does not sufficiently account for E differences in OSG. Fig.  5 . Relationship between mean tiller appearance rate and mean daily solar radiation (SRAD, MJ/m 2 /d) for the tillering period, for non-stressed (filled circles) and stressed (filled squares) crops. Characterising related G differences (and resolving GxE interaction effects) may only be possible once the E drivers of these processes are better understood. The relationship between mean TT_OSG and mean daily SRAD over the tillering period is robust (R 2 ≈ 0.70, p < 0.05), and holds for stressed and irrigated crops (Fig.  6 ). This suggests that TT_OSG is lower when SRAD is higher. This needs to be investigated further to more fully elucidate the underlying mechanisms. It is surmised that OSG (and the end of the tillering period as indicated by PPEAK) is a response to competition for light. More profuse tillering under relatively sunny conditions, as found in sorghum  It is not clear whether it is necessary to simulate a gradual transition from tillering to stalk elongation based on phenological development of shoot cohorts of different thermal age; doing so may achieve better simulation of low level leaf and tiller trait impacts on crop performance. 5.2.4. Under well-watered conditions, STKPF is a robust parameter, unlikely to change by G or E, for the Gs tested here The small observed G variation in STKPF is not agreement with current thinking represented in models, which allow for G-specific values for related model parameters.  
 We believe that the approach demonstrated in this study of analysing crop growth in terms of process-level concepts from crop models is enormously valuable for improving crop modelling for supporting breeding applications. Many of the phenotypic parameters quantified can be used directly or indirectly as model input parameter values. Shortcomings in crop models, particularly situations where errors in one process compensate for errors in other processes, will be highlighted by constraining the number and value range of parameters that can be determined via trial and error. Correcting these will ensure that models operate more realistically in terms of process composition. This supports one of the key tenets of crop model suitability for crop improvement, that models emulate of the biology of the plant. 
 Relatively few sugarcane 'multi-environment trials' (METs) have been conducted, and all such trials that we are aware of have been conducted in a single country. While considerable E diversity can exist in a single country, we believe that the dataset described here offers considerable additional value by spanning very different growing environments. The cultivars grown are similarly diverse, originating from different breeding programmes, with different objectives and germplasm pedigrees. Finally, this is a growth analysis-rather than breedingfocussed dataset, which provides not only the opportunity to characterise G, E and GxE interaction effects, but also attempts to understand and explain these at a process level. This offers possibilities for improvement to the fundamental mechanisms of process-based sugarcane models, which simultaneously improves the models for more effective application in crop improvement activities by (further) unravelling genotypic control over complex traits, as well as generally improving the accuracy of the models for more 'traditional' applications, such as yield benchmarking, forecasting and irrigation scheduling. 
 Growth analysis data from an international multi-environment trial were used to gain a better understanding of G and E effects on biomass production and stalk yields. Above-ground dry biomass (ADM) and stalk dry mass (SDM) yields at final harvest showed significant E and GxE variation. Notable traits of the three common Gs include: rapid tillering, high peak and final shoot population for N41; slow leaf appearance rate and low shoot population with R570; and rapid canopy development and high radiation use efficiency for CP88-1762. Main findings include: • Significant E variation was observed for phenotypic parameters TT_EM50 (thermal time (TT) to 50% primary shoot emergence), TAR (tiller appearance rate per unit TT) and TT_OSG (TT from 50% primary shoot emergence to onset of stalk elongation (OSG)). This challenges (1) the use of air temperature to drive shoot emergence, where simulated soil temperature is proposed as an alternative; and (2) the use of TT as the sole driver of unstressed tillering rate and OSG timing, where solar radiation was found to have a significant influence on these (in addition to TT). OSG timing also appears to be affected by water stress. • Significant G variation was observed for TT requirements for leaf and canopy development, and RUEo, with little E variation in these. Stalk partitioning fraction was found to vary very little between G or E. • Determining the date of primary shoot emergence accurately was both challenging and important, as many crop timing parameters are defined with reference to this phenological event. By explaining more of the E variation, more stable and accurate Gspecific model parameters can be defined and evaluated. This is anticipated to lead to less GxE confounding of modelled processes, and hence crop models that are better-equipped for supporting sugarcane crop improvement activities. Crop model concepts have been explored in this work. The next step is to assess the crop models themselves in terms of their abilities to simulate GxE interactions at these sites. Following thatas necessarymodel refinements, addressing some of the weaknesses (and their possible solutions) identified in this paper, will be implemented and tested.
Sugarcane is one of the world's most important crops, which provides raw materials for sugar products and biofuels, among other things  In rural Pakistan, sugarcane is a lucrative income source for smallholder farmers. In 2019-20, it had a 3.1% share in the agricultural value-added and a 0.6% share in the Gross Domestic Product (Government of Pakistan, 2020). It is a primary source of raw materials for the sugar industry  The growing scarcity of canal water in Pakistan pushes farms to rely more and more on groundwater irrigation  Water scarcity affects crop yields and the costs of groundwater irrigation because farmers have to drill deeper for the use of the tubewells and require more energy to withdraw water. The profit margin for irrigated sugarcane production is lower in Pakistan than in many other countries due to higher costs of groundwater irrigation  Technical efficiency (TE) of sugarcane was studied in Pakistan, where the mean value of TE was found to be 0.96 in Punjab  AE helps judge whether the farms allocate inputs in such a way that minimizes the costs. However, studies on AE and the effects of groundwater extraction costs on the efficiency of sugarcane production are limited in Pakistan, making it difficult to provide appropriate interventions that would boost crop productivity while conserving groundwater. This study aims to analyze the levels of AE and groundwater irrigation efficiency (GIE) of sugarcane production at groundwater irrigated sugarcane farms; ascertain the key aspects affecting the AE and propose policy recommendations for effective use of groundwater. 
 
 The groundwater extraction setup involves the installation of a tubewell privately on a piece of land over an aquifer. A farmer is allowed to install a tubewell on a rented or owned piece of land over the aquifer to mine groundwater without any check  Differences in irrigation costs can affect production costs and thus the efficiency of farms  Here, we hypothesize that the lack of groundwater supplies and the rising groundwater irrigation costs undesirably affect the TE and AE of sugarcane farms, but the effects are not uniform across the solo owners, shareholders, and water buyers. We treat the shareholders as a separate group from the solo owners and water buyers to gain empirical evidence and insight in assessing the validity and nature of this hypothesis. 
 Crop scientists and irrigation engineers measure productivity using the ratio of crop output to land or water applied. These indicators do not account for the yield differences across various farms because these measures focus on one production factor and disregard differences in other inputs, e.g., labor, fertilizer, and seed  "Production technology" determines the crop output from a unique combination of multiple production factors  Besides technical and economic efficiency, environmental efficiency of farm production is another key consideration which incorporates environmental interests into the conventional productivity measures  
 The DEA is based on the concept of relative efficiency and "production possibility frontier", as initially proposed by Farrell  Relative efficiency is modelled and assessed using two approaches: parametric and non-parametric approaches. The SFA  To estimate the efficiency of sugarcane producers, this study applied the DEA for the following reasons: A priori specification of a functional form between inputs and output or distributional assumptions about the data are not required, making the analysis robust to specification bias and non-normality  The DEA allows estimation of efficiency from both the input-oriented perspective and the output-oriented perspective  
 Estimation of AE requires the calculation of the TE and cost efficiency (CE) as the AE is defined as the ratio of CE to TE (Eq. 1). 
 (1) 
 TE was modelled and assessed by the by Eq. (  2 ), given by  Min (λ,θ) θ (2) subject to the below constraints: ∑ n j=1 λ j z ij -z ik ≤ 0 ∑ n j=1 λ j w qj -w qk ≥ 0 ∑ n j=1 λ j = 1 λ j ≥ 0 where n is the number of farms making w products using z inputs. Z is an input matrix with i rows and n columns. W is a set of products with q rows and n columns. In the case of a single output, W would be a row vector. θ denotes TE. λ j is a vector of weights given to each sugarcane farm while calculating the TE of the k th farm. z ik is an input vector and w qk is an output vector. ∑ n j=1 λ j = 1 imposes the restriction that the production frontier is convex, implying that TE is estimated under the VRS assumption. 
 CE is obtained from Eq. (  3 ): Min (λ,z * k ) c ′ k z * k (3) subject to the constraints below: ∑ n j=1 λ j z ij -z * k ≤ 0 ∑ n j=1 λ j w qj -w k ≥ 0 ∑ n j=1 λ j = 1 λ j ≥ 0 where z * k indicates the cost-minimizing set of inputs and vector c ′ k denotes the prices of inputs and outputs. CE for the k th farm is calculated by dividing the minimum possible cost of production (w ′ k x * k ) by the actual cost of production of the k th farm (w ′ k x k ), (Eq. 4). CE = w ′ k x * k / w ′ k x k (4) All the efficiency estimates were derived using the "Benchmarking" Package in R. 
 The slack-based DEA method calculated input efficiency based on non-radial measures. Solving the slack-based DEA equations gives efficiency scores as well as slack values, which are indicators of unjustified use of an input. Eq. (  5 ) shows the set of equations used to calculate slack values of groundwater-irrigation use in sugarcane production. Min (λ,θ, S -,S + ) [ θ -ε ( ∑ m i=1 S - i + ∑ s q=1 S + q ) ] (5) subject to the constraints below: ∑ n j=1 λ j z ij + S - i = θz ik ∑ n j=1 λ j w qj -S + q = w qk ∑ n j=1 λ j = 1 λ j ≥ 0 where S -characterizes the unwarranted quantity of a specific input, and S + provides the assessment of additional production that could be attained. ε is a "non-Archimedean infinitesimal" that is less than any positive real number. The results of this equation would infer such that a sugarcane farm is: Strongly efficient if θ* = 1 (all slacks are zero); and. Weakly efficient if θ* < 1 (all slacks are non-zero). GIE is assessed as described in Eq. (  6 ): GIE = TE -(V et /V ot ) (6) where θ* is the optimal efficiency score of the DMU (farm) under consideration, V et is the slack value of the input t, and V ot is the actual quantity of input t. 
 AE scores were regressed on a given set of explanatory factors to explore factors affecting the AE scores. The upper bound of AE scores was one, and the lower bound was zero. These types of bounded variables are called censored variables. The tobit regression method is widely used to estimate parameters in a censored variable model  The tobit regression model is characterized by Eq. (  7 ). θ k * = α j + ∑ n j=1 β j z j + ε j (7) θ k = ⎧ ⎪ ⎪ ⎨ ⎪ ⎪ ⎩ θ k * , if 0 < θ k * < 1 0, if θ k * < 0 1, if &θ k * ≥ 1 ⎫ ⎪ ⎪ ⎬ ⎪ ⎪ ⎭ "θ k " indicates the efficiency score and Zj is the set of exogenous variables for j = 1., n and ε j is the error term. "VGAM" Package in R was used to estimate parameters of the Tobit regression model. 
 This research was conducted in the Faisalabad District of Punjab Province in Pakistan (Fig.  1 , Source: Abbasi, 2020). Faisalabad has alluvial soil suitable for producing various crops such as wheat, maize, sugarcane, and vegetables. Sugarcane is cultivated over 238,000 ha of land in Faisalabad, the second major sugarcane growing area in Pakistan after Rahim Yar Khan (Crop reporting service-Punjab, 2015). All crop cultivation in Faisalabad is dependent on irrigation water, out of which 60% area was under groundwater in the cropping year 2012-13 (Crop reporting service-Punjab, 2015). Approximately 52% of the groundwater-fed area was irrigated by shared or exclusively owned tubewells, while 48% used purchased groundwater through informal markets  2 3 4 ). Multistage sampling was employed for the selection of sample farms. First, Punjab province was purposively selected because it has the largest area served by groundwater irrigation. From Punjab Province, Faisalabad District was chosen in the second stage as this district has well-developed groundwater markets, allowing access to important crop inputs. The district comprises 189 village councils 1 (Government of Punjab, 2013). At the third stage, 15 village councils were selected to study their groundwater irrigation systems. There are three major groundwater irrigation systems based on tubewell ownership in Faisalabad District  Accordingly, 15 villages 2 were randomly selected from the three types of villages (five from each group). Further, 15 households were randomly selected from each village. This gave a total of 224 farms consisting of 84 solo owners, 65 shareholders, and 75 water buyers. The sample size of the three groups was proportionate to their populace in the selected villages. Out of the 224 farms, 140 cultivated sugarcane, consisting of 56 solo owners, 37 shareholders, and 47 water buyers. 
 The primary data were collected from sugarcane farms through a semi-structured questionnaire survey. To calculate TE, AE, and GIE, the information was gathered on the output of sugarcane, the quantity of inputs (seed, irrigation, chemical use, fertilizer, labor, and machine use) and their respective prices. Data were also collected on characteristics of the households, farmers, farms, and tubewells to assess their effects on AE. Inputs and output quantities were measured and evaluated in perhectare units to compare efficiency among different farm sizes. Input costs and output values were calculated as Pakistani rupees per ha (PKR ha -1 ) 3 (Table  1 ). The farm-level volume of groundwater irrigation for the sugarcane crop was approximately estimated using the model given in Eq. (  8 )  Q = ⎡ ⎢ ⎢ ⎣ t * 129574.1 * BHP [d + ( 255.5998 * BHP 2 d 2 * D 4 )] ⎤ ⎥ ⎥ ⎦ / 1000 ( 8 ) where Q is the total volume of groundwater irrigation (m 3 ), t is total 1 The area represented by a "Village Council" comprises a large village and surrounding areas, often including nearby small villages. Each Village Council is governed by a Union Nazim (similar to a mayor) with 13 elected members known as councillors. 2 There are typically 60-70 households in one village  3 1 USD was equal to 100 PKR at the time of the field survey. irrigation time (hours), d is the depth of the bore (meters), D is the diameter of the suction pipe (inches), and BHP is the power of the engine (horsepower). Generally, the time taken to irrigate one ha ranges from 8 to 10 h. After sowing, weeding, and ridging, the first irrigation takes additional time (up to 25% extra)  Irrigation costs for water buyers were calculated by Eq. (  9 ). The unit cost of groundwater irrigation for water buyers did not include the fixed cost that water vendors shouldered. Only buyers paid for a fixed price for the hourly purchase of groundwater. 
 
 Price of purchased groundwater(PKR per hour) Total irrigation volume in (m 3 per hour) (9) On the other hand, the costs for solo owners and shareholders had two components: fixed cost and variable cost. The fixed cost of groundwater included amortized cost of a pumping setup (borewell, conveyance structure, pump set, and electricity charges) and annual operation and maintenance costs. The amortized costs were calculated using the process adopted by Diwakara and Chandrakanth  Amortized cost = amortized cost of borewell + amortized cost of conveyance structure + amortized cost of pump set + amortized cost of over ground structure +operations and maintenance cost) (10) The computation of compounded costs for each component (bore well, pump set, and conveyance structure) is explained in Eq. (  11 ): Compounded cost = component cost * (1 + i) AA (11) which is amortized separately by employing Eq. (  12 ). Amortized Cost = Compounded investment on a component * (1 + i) AA * i (1 + i) AA -1 (12) where AA denotes the average age of the pump set, conveyance structure, and borewell. The average age of borewell was calculated as 2015year of drilling, and the average age of pump set and conveyance structure was assumed to be ten years. i is the discount rate considered to be 2% to reflect growth in investment in groundwater irrigation  a The area of crop (i.e., sugarcane) is not used as a variable in efficiency analysis but presented as a descriptive variable.  13 ). The costs of labor hours employed for irrigation were considered together with other labor costs. 
 = Fixed cost per cubic meter + variable cost per cubic meter  
 This section comprises tables and figures showing summary statistics, efficiency scores, the frequency distribution of TE, AE, and GIE scores, and key determinants influencing the efficiency of sugarcane farms. 
 [Table  2  provides background about socio-economic and farmrelated characteristics of sampled households. The water buyers were the youngest, while the shareholders were the oldest farmers. Water buyers were more educated than solo owners and shareholders. Table  SI3  shows the t-test of age, education, household size, farm area, tubewell depth and tubewell capacity with various binary variables in the Supplementary Information. Shareholders operated larger farms (7.8 ha), while solo owners operated at an average of 6.5 ha and water buyers at 3.1 ha. Like farm size, shareholders also had larger household sizes than solo owners and water buyers. The mean depth and tubewell discharge rate were highest at shareholders' tubewells. Tubewells with greater depth and flow rate required larger capital for installation and incurred higher operating expenses to provide for energy requirements. Larger installation and operational costs may be a key driver for joint investment in tubewells  SI4 ). Solo owners tended to use diesel tubewells or tractor-operated tubewells for groundwater extraction. Albeit not shown, water buyers bought larger groundwater volumes from diesel tubewells than electric or tractor-operated tubewells. A larger proportion of water buyers appeared to have off-farm income sources than the two other groups; however, the difference was statistically insignificant (Table  SI4 ). Forty-five percent of the solo owners and shareholders and 43% of the water buyers perceived that their groundwater was saline, though none of them had the groundwater quality tested for its fitness for irrigation. 
 This section shows the differences in the quantity of inputs, cost of production, and value of sugarcane output among the solo owners, shareholders, and water buyers (Table  4 ). These differences are the key sources of disparity in TE and AE among sugarcane farms. The findings show that the water buyers cultivated sugarcane on a significantly smaller area than the solo owners and shareholders, while there was no significant difference in sugarcane area between the solo owners and shareholders. The shareholders also applied a higher seed rate and groundwater irrigation volume than the other groups. A higher seed rate led to higher seed and labor costs than the two other groups, as more labor was required to plant seeds (Table  3 ). As the study highlights the groundwater-irrigation efficiency, use of that input and difference in volume among the groups are presented here. The results point out considerable differences in the volume of groundwater irrigation among the three groups. The shareholders (all of   
 Sugarcane area (hectares) 2.0 (c) 1.9 (c) 0.8 (a,b) Groundwater volume (cubic meters) 4754.5 (b,c)  5345.3 (a,c)  4293.0 (a,b)   Seed (kilograms) 5812.0 (b)  8273.8 (a,c)  5455.5 (b)   Note: The Tukey's HSD test was performed using IBM SPSS, keeping the significance level at 0.05. The small letters a, b, and c represent solo-owners, shareholders, and water buyers, respectively. When a letter appears next to a value, it indicates a significant mean difference between the groups. Source: Derived from the survey data (2015). whom electric tubewells) applied 5345 m 3 ha -1 of groundwater to irrigate the sugarcane crop, the highest application rate among the three groups. The solo owners applied 4755 m 3 ha -1 and water buyers 4293 m 3 ha -1 on average. The difference was statistically significant between the shareholders and the two other groups. However, the water buyers incurred larger unit costs than the solo owners and shareholders. Electric tubewells ran on subsidized electricity; therefore, their cost of groundwater extraction was lower than that of diesel engines and tractor-operated tubewells. The association between the crop inputs and the output shows that groundwater irrigation, seed, farmyard manure, phosphate, nitrogen, and machine hours were significantly correlated with the output (Table  4 ). Labor hours had a significant and positive relationship with other inputs, indicating that sugarcane is a labor-intensive crop in the study area. This was intuitive as most of the farms in the study area applied all inputs manually. Groundwater irrigation was significantly related to labor and machinery hours. The correlation between input costs and total cost of production was in line with the above-explained associations of input quantities (Table  SI1  in Supplementary Information). 
 The average TE score of the solo owners was 0.94, and both shareholders and water buyers had an average of 0.96 (Table  5 ). In the sample, 61% of the solo owners, 68% shareholders, and 70% water buyers were fully efficient (TE = 1), indicating that sugarcane farms were largely efficient in terms of TE. 
 The slack-based model provided the estimates of slack variables showing groundwater-irrigation efficiency. The results show that the average GIE score for both the solo owners and shareholders was 0.92, while the water buyers operated at 0.83. It is shown that 48% of the solo owners, 40% shareholders, and 53% water buyers applied groundwater irrigation inefficiently (GIE < 1) (Table  6 ). 
 The AE analysis revealed that the solo owners had the average AE score of 0.40, the shareholders 0.28, and the water buyers 0.37 (Table  7 ). Only 1.79% of the solo owners and 2.70% of the shareholders had the AE score of one. The distribution was relatively unequal for the water buyers as all of the farms exhibited scores lower than 0.90, and none of the buyers reached the 100% efficiency level.   Source: Survey data collected by the authors (2015). 
 AE of sugarcane farms was regressed on the set of farmer and farm characteristics. Age of the farmer, farm size, tubewell depth, tubewell discharge rate, and salinity in groundwater had significant and negative effects on farms' AE. On average, a one-year increase in farmers' age reduced AE by 0.003, keeping other variables constant. For a one-ha increase in farm size, the AE decreased by 0.005 on average, holding other variables constant. Likewise, as the tubewell capacity increased by one m 3 /hour, the AE decreased by 0.002; with a one-meter increase in tubewell depth, the AE decreased by 0.01; for farms with saline groundwater, the AE decreased by 0.076 as compared to those farms with non-saline groundwater (Table  8 ). 
 The DEA-based efficiency analysis found that all three groups produced sugarcane with fairly high TE with no marked difference in TE across the groups, implying that sugarcane farms in Faisalabad applied similar production technologies and the efficiency in the use of the set of inputs had almost saturated, resulting in insignificant differences. Our finding is consistent with that of  The GIE analysis implied that without affecting other inputs and output of sugarcane, the solo owners and shareholders could reduce their use of groundwater by 8% each and the water buyers by 17%. The significant differences in GIE indicated that the three groundwater-user groups experienced heterogeneous qualities of irrigation services during the sugarcane growing season. As sugarcane stays on the field for a longer period than other major crops, farms face elevated irrigation demand during sugarcane production, and water buyers are exposed to more competition than tubewell owners  Although TE was above 90%, most of the sugarcane farms were far less than efficient in the case of AE. The solo owners, shareholders, and water buyers can potentially reduce their costs by 46%, 48%, and 47%, respectively. The shareholders employed more groundwater, labor, and seed than the solo owners and water buyers (see Table  4 ). The solo owners and shareholders used larger quantities of all inputs than the water buyers, contributing to higher production costs for the two former groups. These increased costs might explain the lower AE scores of the solo owners and shareholders vs the water buyers. The water buyers showed the highest AE, implying they were more conservative in allocating their expensive inputs. The regression analysis revealed that increases in age, farm size, tubewell depth and size, and salinity decreased the AE.  Deeper tubewells require larger investments in drilling, casings, and pump sets, and variable costs (fuel, electricity) to extract groundwater are higher, decreasing their CE and lowering AE. Literature suggests that Pakistani farms tend to use tubewells of larger than the optimal capacity to draw water from the given water depth  
 Improving irrigated farms' efficiency is vital for the development of semi-arid agrarian societies such as in Pakistan. This study assessed the TE, GIE, and AE of sugarcane farms in Punjab, Pakistan and investigated determinants of the AE. The sugarcane farms were categorized according to groundwater irrigation access as solo owners of tubewells, shareholders of tubewells, and water buyers. The results indicate that irrespective of the groundwater user type, all sugarcane farms operated   at high levels of TE (94%-96%). In the case of GIE efficiency, the water buyers had lower levels of efficiency than the solo owners and shareholders. Despite the high levels of TE, the AE levels were below 55% on average at the sampled farms. The solo owners tended to be more allocative efficient than the water buyers and shareholders. The shareholders incurred higher costs of production, which may have decreased their AE. These findings assert that looking at TE alone may be misleading as it does not provide adequate information on the other aspects of farm efficiency. The differential AE across the water user groups suggests that policy interventions for improving the AE at sugarcane farms should pay attention to the differences in farm tubewell ownership and groundwater rights. The regression results imply that farmers' age, farm size, tubewell depth, discharge rate, and salinity negatively affected the AE. Therefore, it is recommended that the on-farm water management department and private drilling services provide farms with technical support and consultation on tubewell selection, appropriate tubewell discharge size, and economics of groundwater extraction to minimize the cost of groundwater irrigation. Policies for reducing land fragmentation and monitoring and regulating groundwater extraction to prevent further increases in groundwater depth would improve the AE of sugarcane production. Irrigation and soil management practices such as lime and gypsum, conjunctive use of good quality canal irrigation with saline groundwater irrigation could also improve the AE. The study has potential limitations. First, although the sample farms were carefully selected to capture variations in ownership of tubewells, the efficiency analysis was conducted on the relatively small sample. Second, although the study could have provided more insights into trends in efficiency, time constraints presented a hurdle in collecting data across consecutive time periods. Third, in assessing water efficiency, the environmental component should also be incorporated into the calculation of allocative efficiency, given potential negative environmental effects of water run-off, water wastage, and pollution (see the problem of salination mentioned earlier). To study this, the DEA should be extended by incorporating environmental efficiency scores whereby the material balance condition should be respected (see
Cette étude à pour objectif d'étudier l'effet de facteurs généraux comme la culture, le climat régional ou le pays sur la composition floristique des enherbements et l'abondance des adventices dans les cultures pluviales des régions tropicales. A cette fin, nous avons utilisé 24 jeux de données de relevés malherbologiques réalisés en abondance sous 4 climats, dans 11 cultures et 11 pays des régions tropicales. Ces jeux de données sont disponibles en accès public sur le dataverse Amatrop du Cirad. Cela représente un ensemble de 6 069 relevés, portant sur un total de 1 388 taxons. Les données ont été analysées selon différentes approches complémentaires, mettant en jeux des diagrammes d'infestation, des matrices de corrélation et de coocurrence des espèces, des profils écologiques corrigés, ainsi qu'une ACPVI. Les résultats montrent que dans les régions tropicales il existe un fond d'espèces assez communes et ubiquistes que l'on retrouve de façon plus ou moins abondante dans presque toutes les situations. Ageratum conyzoides est l'unique espèce Majeure générale, tandis que Rottboellia cochinchinensis, Digitaria horizontalis, Bidens pilosa, Cyperus rotundus, Commelina benghalensis, Euphorbia heterophylla, Eleusine indica, Euphorbia hirta et Tridax procumbens sont des espèces Générales, présentes dans plus de 15% des relevés. Le facteur climat en fonction de la pluviométrie et de l'altitude, qui influe sur la température, sélectionne certaines espèces indicatrices des différentes situations. Le facteur culture ne présente pas un effet sélectif particulier et le pays met en évidence des flores locales. La pratique des cultures est elle-même dépendante du climat. Il est malgrès tout possible de connaitre les espèces les plus susceptibles d'être rencontrées dans une parcelle d'une culture, sous un climat et dans un pays donnés. Cependant, il semble que ce soit la combinaison de la nature édaphique et climatique de la parcelle qui détermine de façon la plus précise la composition floristique de l'enherbement d'une culture, bien que nous n'ayons pu l'analyser, faute d'une information complète sur ces facteurs pour l'ensemble des jeux de données utilisés. Finalement sur les 1 388 taxons pris en compte, seulement environ 300 espèces constituent le noyau dur des adventices des cultures pluviales tropicales, du fait de leur fréquence, de leur abondance ou de leur caractère indicateur de conditions agro-écologiques particulières. 
 Weeds are the most damageable pests to crops  Functional approach is used in ecology to reduce the complexity of the diversity of organisms to combinations of characters (called functional traits), allowing by aggregation of individuals within communities, predicting the functioning of ecosystems  Despite years of work and multiple studies, weeds of tropical agroecosystems are still not very well known. Cropping systems in tropical areas can be splited into two main groups, that are flooded crops (e.g. irrigated or flooded lowland rice) and unflooded rainfed crops. These two groups correspond to two very different situations in terms of weed communities. The fact that weeds in flooded rice have to adapt to wet or aquatic conditions reduces drastically the biodiversity range in comparison to other arable crops and water management is the most selective factor on weed spectra  In rainfed unflooded cultivation, local studies on weeds show that the composition of the weed flora is mainly dependent on the environmental conditions (soil type, temperature, rainfall) and finally quite little on the crop itself, especially for annual crops, except that the choice of crop is often correlated to edaphic conditions (Le  In this study, we would like to see if it is possible to highlight general features of the weed flora of rainfed crops, depending on general factors such as crop, or climate when changing the level of perception from the local to the global scale of the tropics. Based on a set of phytoecological datasets of weed communities carried out in tropical rainfed crops over the last 30 years and available on the AMATROP dataverse (Le  
 
 The Amatrop Dataverse currently provides 30 datasets of phytoecological surveys of weeds in tropical crops. In this set, we have selected the datasets carried out in rainfed crops and taking into account the abundance of species. This subset provides 24 datasets of studies conducted in 11 countries and for 11 rainfed crops, in four different tropical climates (Table  1 ). Original datasets of tropical weed surveys were collected from studies conducted or supervised by Cirad weed scientists or partners from 1988 to 2020. The original floristical data were collected following three different types of protocols: -Phytoecological surveys with weighted species records in farmer's fields : species were scored according to different scales such as 1-5 Braun-Blanquet  The environmental factors were collected according to the objectives of each study. They could be very detailed (19 factors concerning country, location, year, environmental and agronomical factors) to very reduced (5 factors concerning location, year, crop, intensification, herbicide). Datasets available in the Amatrop Dataverse have been standardized and homogeneized. In the floristic spreadsheets, the nomenclature of weed species has been fully updated and homogeneized following Plants Of The World Online ( Each dataset contains a different number of surveys, species considered and species occurrences. The quantification of floristic data of the 24 datasets is presented in Table  2 .    
 
 Of the 6121 floristic surveys in the complete dataset, the analysis was limited to the 6069 surveys carried out in the rainfed crop plots. 
 The weed flora of the study was analysed from a taxonomic point of view to evaluate the biodiversity degree encountered in the tropical rainfed cropping systems. 
 The analysis of weed harmfulness was conducted using infestation diagrams that relate the mean recovery of species calculated from the surveys where they are present and their relative frequency. From the concatenation of the 24 floristic tabs, the relative frequency RFs of each species is calculated as the number of times the species appears in a survey divided by the total number of surveys. By noting M as the species cover matrix for a set of floristic surveys, where the cell Ms,r is the cover value of species s in survey r, and Nr is the total number of surveys. The mean cover AMs of each species is calculated as: The relative frequency and mean recovery of species within of the concatenate dataset can be related by considering these two quantities as coordinates. We thus obtain the infestation diagram. From this diagram and based on relative frequency and cover thresholds, it is then possible to define different groups of species according to their weediness evaluated according to the combination of cover and frequency (Le Bourgeois and Guillerm, 1995): the group of "General major" weeds that are very frequent and regularly abundant and that are responsible of the most problems to farmers in terms of production losses and management difficulties. Their relative frequency is greater than 15% and their mean cover is greater than 20%; -the group of "General" weeds present in a large number of situations but rarely abundant. These ubiquitous species are either more or less well controlled or are likely to become more abundant in the event of changes in environmental conditions (e.g. climate change or new cultural practices that would favour them). Their relative frequency is greater than 15% and their mean cover is less than 20%. -The group of "Local major" weeds unfrequent and present only in particular situations (soil, climate …) but allways abundant and domageable to crops where they grow. Because of their reduced ecological niche, they also are very good ecological indicators. Their relative frequency is less than 15% and their mean cover is greater than 20%. -The group of "Minor" weeds which are recorded occasionnaly and they are not a problem for farmers because never abundant and easy to control. Their relative frequency is less than 15% and their mean cover is less than 20%. This kind of infestation diagram gives a good overview of the role of the species in the cropping systems of the area studied, and their harmfulness that is often due to the difficulty to control them efficiently in the crops concerned. However, the species are considered here independently to each other. A complementary objective, is to better define the existing links between different species: for example, is one species necessarily accompanied by another? On the contrary, it can be very useful to know that a species cannot grow in the presence of another one. In this way, we have sought to highlight these links between species, taken in pairs. With the co-occurrence analysis, we are first attached to locate the species often present together: from the floristic tab, we calculated a matrix of co-occurrences of species, which we divided (term to term) by the total number of surveys, to obtain the proportion of surveys in which two species are present in the same place, at the same time. We then graphically represented this matrix in a co-occurrence graph. For reasons of better readability, we have limited the graph to the 50 most frequent species. The analysis of co-occurrences thus allows to identify species evolving together, or, on the contrary, species that are never together. However, this co-occurrence does not take into account cover values of species: If two species are regularly found on the same plot, it is not known that their cover is comparable. In order to take these cover values into account, a Spearman's correlation coefficient  Once the different types of analyses were established, we decided to implement them at different levels. 
 At a second level of perception, we have taken advantage of the common environmental factors between all the datasets in order to decide on relevant analysis filters. Thus, two sub-levels of analysis were conducted to produce infestation diagrams: -Climate sub-level: the datasets were filtered and analysed according to climate types. Four types of climates were concerned: tropical (annual rainfall from 1000 to 2000 mm), dry-tropical (annual rainfall less than 1000 mm), wet-tropical (annual rainfall more than 2000 mm), altitude-tropical (location at more than 400 m of elevation). -Crop sub-level: the datasets were filtered and analysed according to crop types. 11 rainfed crops were concerned: pineapple, groundnut, rainfed rice, food crops, orchard, fallow, vegetables, pasture, tuber, cotton, and sugarcane. Since floristic surveys are linked to agro-ecological descriptors, a complementary approach is the analysis of the floristic surveys by corrected ecological profiles according to the Climate, Crop and Country factors. This approach is based on the calculation of the frequencies and cover of each species for each of the modalities of the considered factor, which makes it possible to estimate the influence of this factor (mutual information) on the overall weed community and on the behaviour of the species  In order to be able to compare the behaviour of the different species, which do not have similar mean cover, a corrected cover was calculated, which corresponds to the mean cover in a factor state divided by the mean cover over all the surveys considered. This calculation is multiplied by 100, so the greater the deviation from 100, the more sensitive the species is to the factor under consideration. Table  3  explains the calculation of the corrected profile of a species for the different states of a factor. Such a corrected ecological profile was calculated for the global set of data (24 concatenate datasets) to establish the situations favourable or unfavourable to the development of the species according to the different modalities of the three factors Country, Crop and Climate, but this approach do not take into account the possible correlations between factors. Finally, we conducted a multivariate analysis to consider the possible interactions between factors and precise their contribution in the selection of weed communities and weed abundance. We decided to use a PCAIV (Principal Componant Analysis with respect to Instrumental Variables)  • n: the number of surveys • p: the number of weed species • q: the number of descriptors • X: the matrix of factors in the surveys, dimension (n, q) • Y: the matrix of species abundance in the surveys, dimension (n, p) The PCAIV operates in several stages. The first step is to perform multiple linear regressions of the species covers according to the X matrix of descriptors (qualitative descriptors will be rendered binaries in the X matrix according to the principles of One Hot Encoding). The regressions are done in a D metric, i.e. that each observation is weighted. In the classical formulation of PCAIV, D = 1/nIn (where In is the identity matrix of order n). Each species Yi is thus expressed as a linear combination of the descriptors, plus a residual independent of them: Which means: A new Y � matrix can thus be constructed, composed of abundance estimates based on linear regressions on the descriptors. Thus, the Y � matrix can be interpreted as the strictly explained part of species abundances explained by descriptors. Formally, we have: Once the Y � matrix has been calculated, the second step consists of performing and interpreting a simple Principal Components Analysis (PCA) on the latter. By the way, only the part of species abundances explained by the descriptors is projected in the factorial plane, since the factorial axes are linear combinations of species, themselves linear combinations of descriptors. This method then allows access to a certain amount of information: -The percentage of inertia explained by the descriptors, by making the ratio between the sum of the eigenvalues of the PCAIV and the sum of the eigenvalues of a simple PCA on Y . This gives us an idea of the interpretability of PCAIV's results: if it explains a very low percentage of total inertia, then the descriptors simply do not explain the abundances of species, and vice versa. -The highlighting of species with high variance, therefore often with a high abundance index, in calculating the covariance between species and factorial axes. -The highlighting of the most important descriptor(s) to explain species abundance, by calculating the correlation between each descriptor and the factorial axes. Indeed, the factorial axes summarize the structure of the Y � matrix. The descriptors having a strong correlation with the factorial axes (in particular the first ones) are thus those having the most explanatory power on the structure of the Y � matrix. If the percentage of inertia explained is sufficiently high, it is reasonable to generalize this to the scale the Y � matrix, therefore species abundance. -The highlighting of the species strongly related to a given descriptor, by comparing the correlation of the species/factorial axes to the one of descriptors/factorial axes: if, in the factorial plane formed by the first two axes of PCAIV, a species is located in the same region as a descriptor (coordinates given by the correlations), then the abundance of the species considered is probably related to the descriptor. Again, this interpretation should be put into perspective with the percentage of inertia explained by the PCAIV. All data analysis of this study were performed under R Studio environment with the Amatrop R-package which was specifically developed for such studies under version 3.6.1 of R and is compatible with version 2.10 or later (R-Development-Core-Team, 2009). The package has been developed using the devtools and roxygen2 tools. At this time, the Amatrop R-package is not intended to be made public via CRAN, since the Amatrop project remains mainly internal to CIRAD  
 The 24 datasets used in this global study (  
 The weed flora encountered in tropical rainfed crops is composed of 1 388 taxa. Unfortunately, the full list of taxa can not be presented here, thus only the most representatives or interesting taxa shall be mentioned along the text. The complete scientific names, EPPO codes and family name of these 299 species are presented in Appendix 1. In the full list, 173 taxa were identified only at the genus level, because the complete identification of certain species is sometimes difficult when they are at an early stage of growth. The genera with the most numbered taxa partially identified are respectively Cyperus (10 sp. taxa), Digitaria (8 sp. taxa), Indigofera (5 sp. taxa), Ipomoea (6 sp. taxa), Panicum (7 sp. taxa) and Vigna (5 sp. taxa). Table  3  presents an overview of the distribution of this weed flora into several levels of the botanical systematics.   
 The infestation diagrams that relate the relative frequency and mean cover of species allow us to define groups of weeds according to their harmfulness. Figure  1  is the infestation diagram elaborated for the full dataset. In such a very big set of data coming from different tropical countries and recorded in several cropping systems, Ageratum conyzoides (AGECO) is the only one weed species which belongs to the group of General major weeds with a relative frequency of 0.21 and a mean cover of 23%. The group of General weeds contains 9 species which are namely Rottboellia cochinchinensis (ROOEX), Digitaria horizontalis (DIGHO), Bidens pilosa (BIDPI), Cyperus rotundus (CYPRO), Commelina benghalensis (COMBE), Euphorbia heterophylla (EPHHL), Eleusine indica (ELEIN), Euhorbia hirta (EPHHI) and Tridax procumbens (TRQPR). These species are very common and time to time enough abundant to cause damages to the crops. They are ubiquitous species and can be observed in many different situations. The group of Local major weeds contains 63 species that are infrequent, but often abundant or even very abundant when present. These species are characteristic to very specific agroecological conditions, poorly represented at the scale of the complete dataset. These weeds are locally responsible of huge damages and are very difficult to control, but they also are very good agro-ecological indicators. It is therefore important to understand the conditions that allow them to grow. Table  6  shows the species of this group that have been recorded in more than 50 or in at least 20 surveys (not frequent but not really rare species). The most frequent weed, Rottboellia cochinchinensis (ROOEX), is only present in 27.7% of the surveys, and the others General weeds are less frequent. This also means that the General major weeds and the General weeds of this study are absent in 73 to 84% of the surveys. This significates that there is no weed community or weed species that are truly common to all the rainfed crop fields all over the tropics. The analysis of co-occurrence, and correlation between species is calculated for the 50 most frequent species and presented in Figure  2    The analysis of co-occurrences does not take into account abundance values. Thus, if two species regularly occur on the same plot, there is no evidence that their abundances are comparable. If two species frequently together develop in a comparable manner in terms of abundance, the correlation coefficient will be positive. Conversely, if, for two species regularly found together, one occupies all the space and suffocates the other, then the correlation coefficient will be negative.  
 The 24 datasets used in this study have five common descriptors that are, Author, Country, Irrigation, Climate and Crop. The Irrigation factor was used to select the 6069 surveys carried out on rainfed crops. We have analysed the potential effect of Climate, Crop and Country factors on the selection of the weed flora and the abundance of the species. Table  7  presents the distribution of surveys among the modalities of these three factors. The quality of sampling are respectively 0.91 for Climate, 0.76. for Crop and 0,84 for Country factor. Sampling among climates is fairly well balanced. Sampling among crops shows that Fallows, Pastures, and Pineapple are undersampled compared to other crops, while Sugarcane is oversampled. The oversampling of sugarcane fields is due to the number of studies conducted on this crop and also repetitions of observations over the year in certain studies. About the Country factor, Benin and French Guiana are undersampled while Reunion and Madagascar are oversampled and are likely to contribute strongly in the analysis. Infestation graphs have been produced for each of the four climates (Appendix 2) and 11 crops (Appendix 3). Corrected ecological profiles of species having a relative frequency greater than 3% have been calculated for the four climates (Appendix 4.1), the 11 crops (Appendix 4.2) and the 11 countries (Appendix 4.3). The results of the PCAIV are presented in Appendix 5. They show that the factors used in the analysis (Author, Country, Crop, Climate) explain only 21% of the inertia of the species cover matrix. This means that there are other factors that contribute to the composition of weed communities and the abundance of species in the plots but we could not take them into account because they were not recorded in all surveys nor datasets. The first three factorial axes of the PCAIV explain respectively 8.3%, 3% and 2% of the inertia, for a cumulative inertia of 13.3%. Corrected ecological profiles give us an idea of the relation between each species and the factor (Mutual information) and the profile of the species among the different modalities of the factor. We have kept the species which mutual information with the factor was superior to 0.03. There are 124 taxa over this threshold for the Climate factor, while there are 180 for the Crop factor and 270 for the Country factor. This means that many more species are selected by the Country (e.g. geographical effect on the flora composition) than by the rainfed crops or by the tropical climates (see Appendix 4.1, 4.2 and 4.3). 
 Infestation diagrams produced according to the four climates (Appendix 2) allowed us to define the harmfulness of weed species for the different climates and to classify them in the General major, General  and Local major categories (tables 8, 9, 10  and 11 ). From the corrected ecological profiles of species with the climate factor (Appendix 4.1), we could select the species showing a high relationship with each climate. These species are mentioned in the three categories of the tables with a * symbol or added in the fourth column of the tables. From the results of the PCAIV (Appendix 5), the species showing a high relationship with a particular climate, are written in bold letters in the tables. For the Tropical climate (Table  8 ) there is no General major weed, always present and abundant. There are few General weeds and few Local major weeds. From the two last groups, no species appears highly correlated with the Tropical climate in the corrected ecological profile that highlights 10 minor weeds. From the results of the PCAIV, the Tropical climate is correlated positively to the factorial Axis 1, in opposition to the Altitude-tropical climate, but no species appears clearly correlated to this Tropical climate. It seems that this Tropical climate represents a medium situation in tropical areas, not so cold, not so dry, and not so wet, and thus it is not a selective factor for weeds. In this situation, the weed community is composed of quite common species which abundance is due to other factors. The most harmful weeds in Altitude-tropical climate, corresponding to tropical areas above 400 m of elevation (Table  9 ) are Ageratum conyzoides (AGECO) and Crassocephalum crepidioides (CRSCR). We also find in the General group many species that are common in every tropical situations. However, some species are preferentially present in regions above 400 m altitude and highlighted by the corrected ecological profile. In the PCAIV, the Altitude-tropical climate contribute positively to the factorial axes 1 and 2, together with Viet Nam, and Madagascar for their surveys in the highlands. The PCAIV results also allows us to refine the interpretation of the conditions under which these species are encountered. In the mountains of Northern Viet Nam where rainfed rice is cultivated, some important weeds are Urena lobata (URNLO), Commelina diffusa (COMDI), Lygodium flexuosum (LYFFL), Sigesbeckia orientalis (SIKOR), Hypericum japonicum (HYPJA), Centella asiatica (CLLAS), Cyperus iria (CYPIR), Sacciolepis indica (SAEIN), Trema angustifolium (TREAN), and Spermacoce alata (BOILF). This latter species is also very common in the highlands in Madagascar together with Cleome hirta (CLEHI), and Stylosanthes guianensis (STYGN) which has been used as cover crop in many places. Species like Anthoxanthum odoratum (AOXOD), Cenchrus clandestinus (PESCL) and Paspalum conjugatum are typical to altitudinal pastures in Reunion Island. In Wet-tropical climate places where annual rainfall is higher than 2 000 mm (  In Dry-tropical climate areas where the annual rainfall is less than 1000 mm (Table  11 ), Murdannia nudiflora (MUDNU) appears the only Major-general weed, recorded in almost 50% of the surveys and with a mean cover of 22%. In fact this species has been recorded mainly in Madagascar in surveys carried out in the dry-climate area (annual rainfall about 350 mm), in cotton and food crop plots grown on hydromorphic temporarily flooded soils, where it is present in 70% of the surveys. In the PCAIV, the Dry-tropical climate factor is negatively but weakly correlated with the factorial axis 3, together with Madagascar, for surveys carried out in the South West of the country, and the Northen part of Cameroon and Ivory Coast. The low number of surveys carried out in this climate makes also low its contribution to PCAIV, so the species concerned have little weight in the construction of the cloud and remain towards the center. These species are therefore difficult to distinguish. Very common weeds of the Dry-tropical climate areas are Tridax procumbens (TRQPR), Digitaria horizontalis (DIGHO), Boerhavia diffusa (BOEDI), Euphorbia hirta (EPHHI). These species are also recorded in other tropical climate situations. Some species are mainly recorded in places with Dry-tropical climate such as Brachiaria nana (BRANA), Corchorus trilocularis (CRGTR) and C. tridens (CRGTD), Citrullus lanatus (CITLA), Spermacoce stachydea (BOISY), Achyranthes aspera (ACYAS) and Tephrosia purpurea (TEPPU). Tribulus terrestris (TRBTE) is also typical of this context in Africa while Tribulus cistoides (TRBCI) is a similar species in Asia and Indian Ocean. Some particular species appear in the groups of General or Local major weeds of Dry-tropical conditions, they are Rottboellia cochinchinensis (ROOEX), Echinochloa colonum (ECHCO), E. obtusiflora (ECHOB), Oryza longistaminata (ORYLO), Rhamphicarpa fistulosa (RPCLO), Trianthema portulacastrum (TRTPO) or Sesbania sesban subsp. punctata (SEBSP). All these species are growing in Dry-tropical climate places but only on hydromorphic and/or temporarily flooded soils. They also are well known to be common species of lowland or irrigated rice (Le  
 Infestation diagrams produced according to the 11 crops (Appendix 3) allowed us to define the harmfulness of weed species for the different crops  14 ). Ageratum conyzoides (AGECO) appears to be the only General major weed. General weeds of this cropping system are common to most of the other cropping systems studied. In the PCAIV, the Food-crops factor is correlated negatively with the factorial axis 1 but located quite at the center of the factorial plan, which confirms that this factor is not selective to the flora. Most of the species correlated with the Food crops in the ecological profile are from Ivory Coast, where food crops were particularly surveyed. . The Groundnut crop (Table  15 ) is also a poorly selective crop on the weed flora. In the PCAIV, it is not significatively correlated to any factorial axis and it is located at the center of the factorial plan. All the species listed as correlated with Groundnut crop from the ecological profile (fourth column of the table) and those highlighted with a * in the General group are typical species to dry conditions (in terms of climate or soil) in which groundnut is preferentially grown. Orchards crop (Table  16 ) determines a particular weed flora dominated by numerous Poaceae species and is characterised by a group of very common and hightly correlated species from both the ecological profile and the PCAIV, which are namely Mimosa pudica (MIMPU), Brachiaria umbellata (PANUM), Leptothrium senegalense (LTURA), Flueggea virosa (SEAVI), and Litsea glutinosa (LISGU). Most of the common weed species in orchards are also common species in fallows. Among the Local major species, some of them like Digitaria ciliaris (DIGAD), Spermacoce verticillata (BOIVE), Rolandra fruticosa (RONFR), Passovia pyrifolia (PTHPY), Steinchisma laxum (PANLX) and Scleria gaertneri (SCLPT) are typical weed species of orchards but specifically in French Guiana. Pastures (Tale 17) are undersampled in this dataset (about 1% of the surveys) and most of the surveys occurred in Reunion Island at high elevation while a few of them occurred in Mayotte. It does not contribute significatively in the PCAIV, and it is located close to the center of the factorial plans together with Fallows. The main characteristic weeds of pastures from the highlands are Anthoxanthum odoratum (AOXOD), Cenchrus clandestinus (PESCL), Dactylis glomerata (DACGL), Holcus lanatus (HOLLA) Juncus effusus (IUNEF), and Hypochaeris radicata (HRYRE). Most of the common species of pastures are also common in Fallows and Orchards. Pineapple crop (Table  18 ) is also undersampled in this dataset and most of the surveys recorded for this crop were carried out in Reunion Island. In the PCAIV, Pineapple crop slightly contributes positively to the factorial axis 3 as well as Reunion country. General major weeds of the Pineapple crop are Asystasia gangetica (ASYCO), Cleome rutidosperma (CLERT), Panicum trichocladum (PANTC), and Brachiaria umbellata (PANUM) while Oxalis corniculata (OXACO), Centrosema pubescens (COSPU), and Senna tora (CASTO) appear hightly correlated to this crop. Rice crop (Table  19 ), corresponding to rainfed upland rice, is very well sampled in the dataset but most of the surveys were carried out in the highlands of Madagascar and Viet Nam. In the PCAIV Rice crop is significatively and positively correlated to Axis 2 together with Altitudetropical climate. That is why the species correlated to rice are also those correlated to Altitudetropical climate, with species like Crassocephalum crepidioides (CRSCR), Lygodium flexuosum (LYFFL), Hypericum japonicum (HYPJA), Urena lobata (URNLO) and Trema angustifolium (TREAN) in Northern Viet Nam while Richardia scabra (RCHSC), Cleome hirta (CLEHI), Stylosanthes guianensis (STYGN), and Neojeffreya decurrens (PTODE) are typical to rainfed upland rice in Madagascar. Ageratum conyzoides (AGECO) is a Major general weed of rainfed rice everywhere, as well as most of the other rainfed crops. The Sugarcane crop (Table  20 ), in spite of the very large number of surveys, does not discriminate a very particular weed flora. This flora is globally common to the crops of the regions with tropical and humid tropical climate. Most characteristic species are Euphorbia heterophylla (EPHHL), Cardiospermum micranthum (CRIMI), Desmanthus virgatus (DEMVI), Malvastrum coromandelianum (MAVCO), and Amaranthus dubius (AMADU). In the PCAIV, this crop contributes positively but slightly to the factorial axis 1 and is situated very close to the center, without being significatively correlated with particular species. In the PCAIV, Tubers crop is significatively and negatively correlated to the three factorial axes and located in the same direction as Ivory-coast and Wet-tropical climate. This is why, despite some weed species common in quite every context, there are, in Table  21 , many species growing preferentially in Wet climate and found in Ivory-coast, such as Talinum fruticosum (TALFR), Telosma africana (TLMAF), Aspilia africana (APIAR), Pueraria phaseoloides (PUEPH), Plectranthus monostachyus (SLSMO), Oldenlandia affinis (OLDAF), and Cryptolepis nigrescens (KWONI). The Vegetables crop factor (Table  22 ) is not significatively correlated to any factorial axis of the PCAIV, and the infestation graph does not highlight any Major general weed for this cropping system. This is probably due to the fact that these crops, grown on small plots and with a high economic stake, are systematically and regularly weeded. Some common weeds are very frequent in vegetables plots (about 40% of surveys) such as Bidens pilosa (BIDPI), Oxalis corniculata (OXACO), Ageratum conyzoides (AGECO) and Eleusine indica (ELEIN). Some species appear highly correlated with this cropping system and are more scarce in other crops, such as Sonchus asper (SONAS) and S. oleraceus (SONOL), Portulaca oleracea (POROL), Solanum nigrum (SOLNI) and S. americanum (SOLAM), Amaranthus viridis (AMAVI), Oxalis latifolia (OXALA), Stellaria media (STEME), Gamochaeta purpurea (GNAPU), Cleome rutidosperma (CLERT), Cyclospermum leptophyllum (APULE) and Lepidium didymum (COPDI). 
 
 The results of the PCAIV show that certain countries are highly correlated to factorial axes so that they contribute to discriminate a particular weed flora. For example, Northern Viet Nam in opposition to Madagascar along Axis 1, while it is also in opposition with Ivory Coast along the Axis 2. Mayotte and Reunion are situated on the positive part of Axis 3, while Madagascar and Ivory Coast are on the negative part. From the Corrected ecological profile of the species in relation to the country factor we can select the most correlated species to these ountries.  
 In this study, quite a large number of datasets were processed, but unfortunately without a perfect sampling balance across crops, countries and climates. In addition, some tropical regions are clearly under-represented, such as tropical America, and tropical Asia. The PCAIV is finally little informative with a cumulative inertia of the first three factorial axes of only 11.96% and an inertia of the species abundance matrix explained by the given factors of only 18.35%. This shows that despite the correlations highlighted by the corrected ecological profiles with respect to crop, climate and country factors, there are other agro-environmental factors acting on species selection and abundance, which we have not been able to analyse here. Part of the weakness of the PCAIV is undoubtedly explained by the crop groupings that we had to do. For the Crop factor, it was necessary to make groupings to avoid multiplying the number of crops and diluting the information, as for food crops (sorghum, muskwari, millet, maize) and tubers  Beyond these local processes, it is obvious that at the global scale of the tropical level of our study, the geographical factor makes a rather important contribution in the floristic composition. Although many tropical weeds are pan-tropical and occur in all tropical regions of the world (e.g. Bidens pilosa, Ageratum conyzoides, Rottboellia cochinchinensis, Cyperus rotundus...) some species remain inferred to particular regions such as tropical America, Africa, or Asia. The islands of the Indian Ocean are clearly placed at the interface of African and Asian flora and even American and European flora because of the numerous introductions made for about 400 years of human activities in these islands. Thus, the weed flora of Reunion Island, which combines a very strong rainfall and altitudinal gradients, represents a magnificent mixture of tropical and subtropical weed flora from the 4 continents. In some 400 years of human occupation more than 3000 plant species have been introduced there  Globally, the weed flora of tropical rainfed crops is very diverse and includes a very large number of species. However, on a global scale the most frequent species are present in less than 30% of the plots, but there is a pool of species that are found very regularly in the plots. Rainfall and altitude (inducing cooler average temperatures) are selecting certain species or favor their abundance. The crops themselves are partly correlated to climate (cotton and food crops are more likely to be grown in tropical or dry tropical regions, while sugarcane and tubers are more related to wet-tropical climates, and pasture and rainfed rice are more likely to be grown at higher altitudes. Some species that are very common in tropical regions can be found in different climates or crops such as Digitaria horizontalis, Ageratum conyzoides, or Rottboellia cochinchinensis but in a more or less abundant way. It is probably the local edaphic conditions that are conditioning their development and possibly weed management practices such as the use of herbicides that are favoring or disadvantaging them. Unfortunately, we could not analyse the effect of the soil factor and weed management practices, because they were not recorded in all the datasets. Thus, a number of species appear as good indicators of the agro-ecological situations. But, it is rather a combination of species according to their presence and respective abundance that seems to be representative of a given situation. Local major species in infestation graphs and species appearing highly correlated in the corrected ecological profiles are also good indictors of environmental conditions, but as they are not common, it is important to understand the local agro-ecological factor that allow their development. It is interesting, for example, to look at the status of Murdannia nudiflora (MUDNU) which appears as a General major weed in Dry-tropical climate regions whereas it is a wetland species  Weeds in temperate crops are highly dependent on temperature and day length to germinate and develop, which clearly differentiates autumn, winter, spring and summer weed floras. On the other hand, in tropical regions the temperature is rarely limiting (except with altitude) and the day length varies little during the year. Thus, it is above all the rainfall in terms of quantity and distribution along the year that plays a major role in the selection of species, combined with the nature of the soil through its water retention capacity and fertility. Thus, the edaphic situation represents a major factor in the selection of the weed flora of a crop plot. Then, rotation and agricultural practices will favour or unfavour species according to their tolerance or resistance to these practices. 
 A number of very ubiquitous and pantropical weed species were found in almost all regions, in all climates and in all crops. This does not mean that they are present and/or abundant in all cultivated plots. Indeed, it is important to keep in mind that even the most frequent species such as Rottboella cochinchinensis, Digitaria horizontalis and Bidens pilosa are respectively present in only 28%, 25% and 23% of the total plots surveyed. It is then particularly interesting to understand in which situations these species are not present and not growing. Indeed, according to the corrected ecological profile on the crop factor, R. cochinchinensis develops in all climates, but it is a species growing in heavy and more or less hydromorphic soils, which is never present in pasture or vegetable crops. D. horizontalis is present in all climates but prefers dry climates. It is rare in sugarcane and orchards and is absent from fallow land, pastures and pineapple plots. As for Bidens pilosa, this species is present in all climates but prefers humid climates, and is rare in Cotton and groundnut. This study shows that it is not possible to define a weed flora specific to each crop type, but that the composition of the weed flora depends mainly on the region, the climate and the soil (which will interfere with the climate). However, it is still possible to know which species are most likely to be found in each crop. At the level of species knowledge, the combined analysis of results from infestation diagrams, ecological profiles and global multivariate analysis allows us to refine our knowledge of their behavior. For example, for the most frequent species, it is possible to highlight situations where they are not encountered or where they are scarse. Thus, it is possible to consider the elements of these contexts that would prevent the species from developing (competition by other species, such as in pastures or grassy orchards, very regular weeding as in vegetable crops...). Conversely, for the species that are not frequent but abundant when present (Major-local weeds) it is necessary to understand the particular situation in which these species develop. As for example Hypericum japonicum a major weed of rainfed rice but only in Northern Viet Nam. From this study, we did not find patterns of weeds strictly related to any crop, but crops are cultivated in environments that are more or less favorable to the development of weeds. Despite the exhaustive flora of this study is very diverse and counts 1 388 species with 89 to 389 taxa per study and 3 to 71 taxa per survey, finally, the weed flora of interest at the level of tropical areas for rainfed crops can be reduced to about 300 species, comprising the common and harmful species and the ecological indicator species. Only a small number of species are truly damaging to tropical agricultural production and need to be managed effectively. Some species are relevant agro-ecological indicators, and their presence informs us about the conditions of the climate, environment or cropping system. It is therefore very useful to know how to decipher the ecological significance of these species. In this study, we worked at the species level, but each species can be considered as a combination of morphological or behavioural functional traits that can interact with the crop. In this study we did not find strong patterns discriminating weed communities according to rainfed tropical crops or tropical climates. The question then arises as to whether the analysis of the same dataset but based on functional traits instead of species could highlights patterns of selection of traits communities according to crops and climates at the global scale of tropical rainfed crops. In another hand, it would be interesting to assess the extent to which functional traits are more sensitive to crop and climate factor than species and more relevant in characterising weed constraint of these cropping systems.
